ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

  

 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

 

Chapter 22 

 

STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

§ 22-1. Approved Plans for Work and Permit Required; Compliance with Plans, Etc.; 
Waiver of Formal Plans. 
§ 22-2. Application for Permit. 
§ 22-3. Specifications. 
§ 22-4. Inspection. 
§ 22-5. Construction. 
§ 22-6. Acceptance of County Streets. 
§ 22-7. Charges. 
§ 22-7.1. Public Rights-of-Way Use Fee for Providers of Telecommunications Services. 
§ 22-8. Withholding Building Permits under Certain Conditions. 
§ 22-8.1. Permits Issued Before October 1, 2010 by the Commonwealth of Virginia,  
Department of Transportation, for Activity, Work and Installation of Facilities in  
the Columbia Pike (State Route 244) Right of Way. 
§ 22-8.2. Permits For Certain Entities To Install And Maintain Small Cell Facilities On 
Existing Structures In The Public Rights-Of-Ways Of The County; Application; Fees. 
§ 22-9. Penalty. 
§ 22-10. Repeal of Previous Ordinance. 

B.  

A.  

 
 
§  22-1.  Approved  Plans  for  Work  and  Permit  Required;  Compliance  with  Plans,  Etc.;  Waiver  of  Formal 
Plans. 
 
 
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any work of any kind in any street, 
highway,  public  right-of-way,  easement  or  other area  dedicated  to  the  public  use  within  the  County  of  Arlington, 
Virginia,  without  having  first  made  application  to  the  County  Manager  or  his  designee  and  having  received  from 
him approved plans covering the work and a permit to do the work as shown on such plans. In this chapter the term 
"County Manager" shall mean and include the term "or his designee." 
 
 
All  construction,  repair  work,  or  planting  of  any  nature  performed  by  any  individual,  firm  or 
corporation  shall  be  performed  according  to  the  plans,  specifications,  regulations  and  written  instructions  of  the 
County  Manager.  The  County  Manager,  however,  is  hereby  invested  with  authority  to  waive  the  requirement  of 
formal plans where the work to be done is of a routine nature and is so limited in scope as not to require detailed 
plans and specifications for its proper execution. 
 
 
Plans that have been approved by the County after the effective date of this chapter shall become 
null and void if no work has been started within one (1) year after the date of approval, or if after starting the work 
there in a period of one (1) year in which there has been no work performed in accordance with the approved plans, 
unless a reasonable additional delay in completion of street construction has been approved by the County Manager.  
(5-23-61) 
 
§ 22-2. Application for Permit.  
 

C.  

Application for such permit shall be made upon a form provided for that purpose by the County Manager. 
Said  application  shall  be  accompanied  by  plans  covering  in  detail  the  proposed  work  to  be  carried  out  under  the 
permit.  
(5-23-61) 
 
§ 22-3. Specifications.  

Code Updated May 2020 

22-1 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

 

B.  

B.  

A.  

A.  

The  plans  and  specifications  will  require  complete  and  sufficient  inspection  by  the  County 

Excavation.  Excavation  shall  be  made  the  full  width  of  the  dedicated  right-of-way  unless 

Specifications  covering  the  type  of  work  that  is  proposed  to  be  done  according  to  the  plans are available 
from Arlington County. These specifications with plans will cover excavation, drainage, curb and gutter, sidewalks, 
road surface from curb to curb, storm sewers, planting and street trees and all other incidental construction such as 
utility facilities and street lighting as shown on plans or as given in written instructions. Standards, specifications, 
regulations and special provisions of the Department of Environmental Services shall be followed unless otherwise 
specified.  
(5-23-61; 2-7-70; Ord. No. 88-7, 7-1-88; Ord. No. 04-25, 10-2-04) 
 
§ 22-4. Inspection. 
 
 
Manager to control the construction at all times and to ensure completed work in conformity with them. 
 
 
In order to make the proper check of the work done, the owner, contractor or agent will notify the 
Department of Environmental Services upon the completion of each portion or type of work done under the permit 
so  that  proper  inspection  may  be  made  to  determine  its  correctness,  such  as  the  inspection  of  grade  or  rough 
excavation, drainage structures and utility lines before backfilling, storm sewers before backfilling,  curb and gutter 
forms  before  placing  concrete,  subgrade  before  placing  surface,  and  completion  of  the  surface  of  street.  Other 
periodic inspection may be designated by the County Manager from time to time.  
(5-23-61; 2-7-70; Ord. No. 88-7, 7-1-88; Ord. No. 04-25, 10-2-04) 
 
§ 22-5. Construction. 
 
 
construction plans shall be approved otherwise. 
 
 
 
 
street unless, because of some unusual condition, this requirement shall be modified by the County Manager. 
 
Drainage.  No  lot  or  area  where  natural  drainage  is  affected  shall  be  built  upon  or  developed 
 
without first having constructed an adequate storm sewer system approved by the County Manager. The storm sewer 
system  shall  be  designed  in  accordance  with  the  Stormwater  Detention  Ordinance,  Chapter  60  of  the  Code  of 
Arlington  County,  Virginia.  All  drainage  structures,  including  storm  sewers  and  stormwater  detention  facilities 
through new developments, shall be constructed according to approved plans and specifications. 
 
 
the Department of Environmental Services. 
 
Street construction plans. All plans for street construction which have been approved for a period 
 
of more than a year and under which no work has been started or, in the event work has been started and there has 
been a delay of more than one (1) year in the completion of the work, will become null and void and will have to be 
resubmitted for approval under the terms of this chapter, unless a reasonable additional delay in completion of street 
construction  has  been  approved  by  the  County  Manager.  All  construction  started  after  the  effective  date  of  this 
chapter shall be in accordance with the specifications in effect at the time of the commencing of the construction. 
 
Conditional  acceptance  of  streets.  If,  in  the  judgment  of  the  County  Manager,  circumstances  in 
 
any  case  warrant  conditional  acceptance  of  any  street  under  this  chapter,  the  County  Manager  may  conditionally 
accept  such  street  setting  forth  in  writing  the  terms  and  conditions  of  such  acceptance,  including  provision  for 
security  in  an appropriate amount to  be held  in  escrow  to  assure  completion  of  such  street in  accordance  with the 
requirements of this chapter. 
 
Maintenance  of  traffic.  All  construction  or  repair  work  being  done  by  any  person,  firm,  or 
 
corporation in any street, highway, public right-of-way, easement, or other dedicated area within the County shall be 

Sidewalks. Sidewalks of uniform width of at least four (4) feet shall be placed on each side of the 

Pavement. The pavement shall be constructed by the developer according to approved standards of 

Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter shall be placed on each side of the street. 

G.  

H.  

D.  

C.  

E.  

F.  

Code Updated May 2020 

22-2 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

I.  

sufficiently and adequately protected by barricades at all times. Traffic controls for street construction, maintenance, 
and  utility  operations  shall  conform  to  the  Manual  on  Uniform  Traffic  Control  Devices  published  by  the  Federal 
Highway Administration. Such warning devices shall be maintained at all times by the person, firm, or corporation 
to  whom  the  permit  is  issued  or  where  the permit has  been  issued  to an  owner  and the  work  is  being  done  by  an 
independent  contractor  they  shall  be  maintained  by  the  contractor.  Both  pedestrian  and  vehicular  traffic  shall  be 
maintained at all times except as approved in accordance with § 22-1. 
 
Suspensions or delays. All work which has been commenced under the provisions of this  chapter 
 
shall  be  prosecuted  as  promptly  as  sound  construction  practice  will  permit  and  shall not  be  suspended  or  delayed, 
except for unusual conditions, in which case such suspension or delay shall be approved by the County Manager. 
 
Times.  On  streets  specified  by  the  Department  of  Environmental  Services,  work  is  not  to  be 
 
carried  out  from  7:00  to  9:00  a.m.  and  4:00  to  6:00  p.m.  unless  it  does  not  interfere  with  traffic  and  special 
permission is granted by the Department of Environmental Services or Police Department in an emergency. 
 
Approval of work. After final completion and final inspection of the work under the permit, it shall 
 
be the duty of the County Manager to approve the work performed and to notify the owner that the work has been 
satisfactorily completed according to plans, specifications and written instructions.  
(5-23-61; 2-7-70; 9-11-76; Ord. No. 88-7, 7-1-88; Ord. No. 91-37, 10-12-91; Ord. No. 04-25, 10-2-04) 
 
§ 22-6. Acceptance of County Streets.  
 

K.  

J.  

No  dedicated  street,  highway,  public  right-of-way  or  any  part  thereof  hereafter  will  be  accepted 
unconditionally as a County street or highway, unless and until the same shall have been constructed according to 
plans,  specifications and  written instructions  of  and approved  by  the  County  Manager.  No  street  or highway  shall 
hereafter be accepted unless it is at least one (1) block long, unless it intersects the boundary of the subdivision of 
which it is a part or on account of unusual conditions, upon the approval of the County Manager. But this provision 
shall not be construed as to defeat or deny any right which the  County, or the public at large, may have acquired or 
may hereafter acquire, in any easement or way, under the general provisions of the law.  

 
Interlocking  concrete  and  brick  pavers  and  trees  and  shrubbery  as  required  by  the  approved  plans  and 
specification shall be warranted as follows for a period of one (1) year beyond the date of the approval of work as 
established in § 22-5, subsection K:  

 
 
Interlocking  concrete  and  brick  pavers  against  settlement  which  creates an  unsafe  or hazardous  condition 
for  pedestrians  and  is  attributable  to  foundation  failures  or  poor  construction  practices.  Trees  and  shrubs  shall  be 
planted in conformity with standards set forth in the American National Standards Institutes (ANSI) publication, Z-
60.1-1990,  except  for  those  failures  resulting  from  extreme  weather  conditions  or  abuse  or  destruction  by  others 
beyond the control of the permittee.  
(5-23-61; 2-7-70; Ord. No. 88-7, 7-1-88; Ord. No. 96-7, 5-11-96) 
 
§ 22-7. Charges.  
 
The cost of the engineering services including review and approval of civil engineering plans, building plans, right-
of-way use permits, supervision and inspection of construction, shall be borne by the owner or developer according 
to the Arlington County Permit and Plan Fee Schedule adopted by the County Board.  

 

Fees Required by Chapter 22 (Street Development and Construction) 
Section 22-7, of the County Code 
  
A.  The cost of the engineering services rendered by DES including 
studies, approval of plans, supervision and inspection of construction, 
shall be borne by the owner or developer at the charges set out below: 
Civil Engineering Plan…Base Fee per plan 

  

 

 

$1,660.00 

Code Updated May 2020 

22-3 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

- Plus a Review and Inspection Fee per linear foot (LF) applicable 
separately to each of the following items: storm sewers, water mains, 
sanitary sewers, curb/gutter, sidewalk, pavement and other support 
facilities including, without limitation, electric, telephone, traffic signal 
conduit and street light conduit. 
Civil Engineering Plan Revision…Base Fee  
- Plus a Review Fee per linear foot (LF) applicable separately to each of 
the revised portions of the following items:  storm sewers, water mains, 
sanitary sewers, curb/gutter, sidewalk, pavement and other support 
facilities including, without limitation, electric, telephone, traffic signal 
conduit and street light conduit. 
 
B.  Additional Plan Review Fees 
Maintenance of Traffic Plan (for Special Exception Projects) 
Maintenance of Traffic Plan (for By-Right Projects) 
Maintenance of Traffic Plan (Revision) 
Tie-back Plan 
Temporary Pole Installation/Utility Undergrounding 
 
C. Chesapeake Bay Preservation Ordinance review fees for review 
required by Chapter 61, Section 61-4. Administration, of the Arlington 
County Code: 
Minor water quality impact assessment review-less than 500 sf of 
disturbance in RPA  

Minor water quality impact assessment review-500 sf or more of 
disturbance in RPA  
Major water quality impact assessment review with or without an LDA  

Landscape Conservation Plan review 
Exception request 
Stormwater Quality Review for single family detached structures-one or 
two units, per LDA permit, and for County linear utility projects  

Stormwater Quality Review for single family detached structures 
qualifying for simplified Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan  

Stormwater Quality Review for all other LDA Permits  
  
D.  Other engineering reviews and services 
Storm water detention plan review: 
- Storm water detention waiver requests, each 
- Floodplain plan review 
- Drainage study plan review 
- Soils report 

 
 

Code Updated May 2020 

22-4 

$8.30 LF 
$830.00  

$4.45 LF  
 

$666.00  
$323.00  
$220.00  
$554.00  
$2,768.00  
 

  

  

 
$102.50 

 
$707.00 
 
$2,100.00 
$410.00 
$790.00 
 
 
$1,435.00 
 
 
$410.00 
$2,460.00 

 $497.00 
$282.00 
$2,100.00 
$1,010.00 
$333.00 

  
  

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

  

 

E.  For the construction of public utility lines, the inspection charges 
shall be as follows, except as provided in paragraph(s) below: 
Work performed for Arlington County project (by contract with the 
County) 
- Base permit fee 
- Work performed in County right-of-way without an approved permit or 
engineering plan 
- Emergency Work-base permit fee 
- Extension of an existing public right-of-way use permit 
Additional permit fee charges for pipelines, underground conduits, and 
similar facilities: 
 - House connection 
 - Up to 100 feet 
 - Plus the following fee for each additional 100 feet or portion thereof 
Poles - Overhead lines, and similar facilities: 
 - Poles with or without guy wires 
 - Guys 
Wires along street: 
 - Up to 100 feet 
 - Plus, the following fee for each additional 100 feet or portion thereof 
  
F. Driveways, sidewalks, curb and gutter and landscaping: 
 - Base permit fee for one entrance 
 - Each additional entrance 
- Sidewalk, curb and gutter for every 50 feet or portion thereof 
- Street trees: Base permit fee (not related to a site plan development) 
  
G.  Fees for the review of potential utility conflicts and marking of 
public utilities, including storm sewers, water supply infrastructure, 
and sanitary sewer infrastructure where ground is expected to be 
disturbed.  These fees shall be collected at the time of permit 
application as follows: 
 - New commercial or apartment structure permit 
 - New town house construction permit (per structure of ten (10) or 
more units) 
 - New town house construction permit (per structure of less than 10 
units) 
 - New residential single-family structure permit 
 - Demolition permit 
 - Exterior alterations related to building, plumbing, electrical or 
mechanical permit 
  
H.  Expedited engineering permit review for construction within the 
County right-of-way, (for review provided by a professional 
engineering contract service).  This fee shall be paid upon application 
for the expedited right-of-way permit: 

  

  

  

  

 

 $167.00 

$594.00 
$475.00 
$237.00 

 $243.00 
$405.00 
$205.00 
 
 $243.00 
$243.00 
 
 $330.00 
$167.00 
 

 $167.00 
$243.00 
$243.00 
$32.00 
 

$454.00  

$454.00 

$232.00 
$232.00 
$232.00 

$59.00 
 

$16,740.00 

Code Updated May 2020 

22-5 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

  

 

  
  

  

  

  

  
I.  Moving houses or oversized vehicles or equipment  
- Per one-way trip 
- Plus the actual cost of County staff time to review the plans and to 
adjust, move or relocate County facilities as determined by staff 
NOTE: For vehicles or equipment whose gross weight exceeds ninety 
thousand (90,000) pounds, prior written approval from the County 
Manager or his designee is required before a permit will be issued. 
  
J.  Parking construction equipment on County streets 
The fee for parking construction equipment, trailers, dumpsters, 
construction worker buses or loading equipment on County streets or 
within County rights-of-way, where no parking meters exist, is as 
follows: 
 - One (1) day 
 - Each additional day or portion thereof 
Additional fee for loss of parking meter revenue: 
- For each parking meter with a time limit of four (4) hours or less, fee 
per day or any portion thereof 
- For each parking meter with a time limit of more than four (4) hours – 
fee per day, or any portion thereof 
- Additional fee for removal of meters, per parking meter 
Additional fee for use of right-of-way, other than metered parking on a 
Major or Minor Arterial Street right-of-way: 
- Per linear foot per lane, per day or portion thereof 
For non-arterial streets within or adjacent to the following General Land 
Use Plan land use categories:  Residential Medium, Residential High-
Medium, Residential High, Service Commercial, General Commercial, 
Service Industry, Government and Community Facilities, all Office-
Apartment-Hotel categories and all Mixed Use categories: 
 - Per linear foot per lane, per day or portion thereof 
For all other streets rights-of-way: 
 - Per linear foot per lane, per day or portion thereof 
Additional fee for the County providing the traffic control devices 
(barricades/cones): 
 - Per device, per day or portion thereof 
Additional fee for the County providing variable message signs (VMS): 
 - Per VMS per day or portion thereof 
Additional fee for temporary signs: 
 - for two (2) temporary signs 
 - for each additional temporary sign in excess of two (2) 
Additional fee for restricting parking where parking is prohibited before 
the issuance of the permit or will be restricted arising out of the issuance 
of the permit: 
 - Per day or portion thereof 
In no event shall the duration of a permit restrict parking under this 
provision exceeding a period of (2) days. 

 

$43.00 

 

 $43.00 
$4.30 

 $16.20 

$11.90 
$54.00 

 $0.65 

 
 $0.38 
 
 $0.11 

 
 $5.40 
 
$97.00  
 
 $27.00 
$1.35 

 
 $36.70 

 

Code Updated May 2020 

22-6 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

 
K.  Use of County streets and rights-of-way for block parties, races, 
parades, festivals, special events, etc. 
  
L.  All other permits as required under Section 22-1 to do any work of 
any kind in any street, highway, public right-of-way, easement or other 
area dedicated to the public use within the County of Arlington: 
 - Minimum fee 
 - Work performed by other government agencies 
  
M.  Construction as authorized by a contract with Arlington County 
 

  

  
  
 

 

 $36.70 
 

$54.00  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

N. 

Permit surcharge:  

No permit shall be issued which would allow an excavation or opening in any paved or improved street or 
alley  which  has  been  improved  within  a  five  (5)  year  period  preceding  the  date  of  permit  issuance  unless  a 
surcharge,  which  shall  be  in  addition  to  the  usual  permit  fee,  is  paid  to  the  Treasurer  of  Arlington  County. 
Excavation for emergency repairs shall be exempt from this surcharge. 

  

The surcharge shall be equal to fifty percent (50%) of the restoration fees as itemized in Table 1. 

 

Table 1. Restoration Fees  
 
Restoration fees are for each square yard or fraction thereof of street or alley pavement. 
 

 
1. 
 
 

 

 

 

2. 
 
 
 

base  with 

 
Street Pavements: 
Concrete 
Concrete 
bituminous top 
Bituminous  base  with 
bituminous top 
Bituminous base without 
bituminous top 
Gravel 
base 
bituminous top 
Alley Pavements: 
Concrete 
Bituminous 
Gravel 

with 

Cost Per Square Yard 
 
$  31.00 
    36.00 

    26.00 

    no fee 

    26.00 

 
    31.00 
    26.00 
    no fee 

O. 

 
 
  
For the initial  continuous installation  of  a new  County-wide  utility  plant  project,  which  does not 
exceed a three (3) year completion period, the maximum fee is fifteen dollars ($15.00) per mile. After completion of 
the initial utility plant project, any additions to the plant will have fees determined in accordance with  subsection D 
above.  
 

Note:  Applications  for  permits  should  be  accompanied  by  check  unless  a  public  department  or  agency, 
operating without profit, is responsible. Companies doing continuous construction work in the County can put up a 

Code Updated May 2020 

22-7 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

bond or certified check for two hundred dollars ($200.00) and secure various permits by stating on the permit that 
guarantee is covered by such bond or check. The amount of surety is to be established by the County Manager. 

 

P. 

  
Refunds:  ln  cases  where  a  permit  has  been  issued  and  the  project  is  abandoned  or  withdrawn 
before  any  work  has  begun  under  the  permit,  the  applicant  may  return  the  permit  to  the  Department  of 
Environmental  Services  with a  written request  for  cancellation  of  the  permit  and  partial refund.  In  such  cases  the 
applicant may receive a refund of fifty percent (50%) of the portion of the permit fee which is in excess of the base 
permit  fee;  provided,  however,  that  the  request  is  received  at  least  thirty  (30)  calendar  days  before  the  expiration 
date of the permit. No refund shall be given for an abandonment or withdrawal request if any work has begun under 
the  permit  or  if  fewer  than  thirty  (30)  calendar  days  remain  between  the  time  the  request  is  received  and  the 
expiration date of the permit.  
(5-23-61; 11-8-75;  2-21-76;  2-24-79;  Ord.  No.  84-14, 6-2-84;  Ord.  No.  88-7,  7-1-88;  Ord.  No. 90-5,  7-1-90;  Ord. 
No. 91-11, 4-27-91; Ord. No. 92-21, 7-1-92; Ord. No. 93-9, 7-1-93; Ord. No. 98-8, 7-1-98; Ord. No. 99-10, § 1, 4-
14-99; Ord. No. 02-08, § 1, 4-20-02; Ord. No. 04-11, § 1, 4-24-04; Ord. No. 04-25, 10-2-04; Ord. No. 05-05, 4-16-
05, effective 7-1-05; Ord. No. 07-01, 4-21-07, effective 7-1-07; Ord. No. 07-05, 4-21-07, effective 7-1-07; Ord. No. 
07-07, 4-21-07, effective 7-1-07; Ord. No. 09-14, 4-28-09, effective 7-1-09; Ord. No. 10-09, 4-24-10, effective 7-1-
10;  Ord.  No.  13-02,  4-20-13,  effective  7-1-13;  Ord.  No.  18-05,  4-21-18,  effective  7-1-18;  Ord.  No.  20-09,  4-30-
2020, effective July 1, 2020.) 
 
§ 22-7.1. Public Rights-of-Way Use Fee for Providers of Telecommunications Services. 
 
 
meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 
 

A.  Definitions.    The  following  words  and  terms,  when  used  in  this  section,  shall  have  the  following 

“Certificated  provider  of  telecommunications  services”  means  a  public  service  corporation  holding  a 
certificate  issued  by  the  State  Corporation  Commission  to  provide  local  exchange  or  interexchange  telephone 
service.  

 
“Public  rights-of-way  use  fee”  means  a  fee  charged  and  billed  monthly  to  the  ultimate  end  user  of  each 
access line of a certificated provider of local exchange telephone service, the rate of which fee shall be established 
annually by the Virginia Department of Transportation in the manner specified in Virginia Code § 56-468.1. 

 
B.  

 
The public rights-of-way use fee is hereby imposed on the ultimate end user of each access line, as 
defined  in  Virginia  Code  §  56-468.1(A),  and  shall  be  collected  by  each  certificated  provider  of  local  exchange 
telephone service operating in Arlington County, but not providers of commercial mobile radio services. Within two 
(2) months after the end of each calendar quarter, each such certificated provider shall remit to the County Treasurer 
the amount of public rights-of-way use fees it has billed to end users of the provider's services during such preceding 
quarter. Fees so collected by  certificated providers shall be deemed to be held in trust until remitted to the  County 
Treasurer. Until the ultimate end user pays the public rights-of-way use fee to the local exchange provider, such fee 
shall  constitute  a  debt  of  the  ultimate  end  user to  the  County  until  paid  to  such  provider.  If  any  ultimate  end user 
refuses  to  pay  the  public  rights-of-way  use  fee,  the  local  exchange  service  provider  shall  provide  the  name  and 
address of each such ultimate end user on a quarterly basis along with the remittance of fees. 
 
 
The public rights-of-way use  fee shall be in lieu of, and not in addition to, the permit inspection 
and  other  fees  of  general  application  imposed  by  this  chapter  on  certificated  providers  of  telecommunications 
services. No certificated provider of telecommunications services shall be required to pay such permit or inspection 
fees  or  any  other  County  fees  charges  (except  for  zoning,  subdivision,  site  plan  and  comprehensive  plan  fees  of 
general application) as a condition of, or as compensation for, its use of the public rights-of-way. 
 
 
Nothing  in  this  section,  however,  shall  relieve  any  certificated  provider  of  telecommunications 
services  from  submitting  plans,  applying  for  permits,  and  adhering  to  applicable  standards  for  construction, 
installation  of  facilities,  and  street  or roadway  repairs  in  the  manner required  by  this  chapter  and  other  applicable 
statutes, ordinances or regulations, provided such requirements are no greater than those imposed on all providers of 
telecommunications  or  nonpublic  providers  of  cable  television,  electric,  natural  gas,  water  or  sanitary  sewer 
services.  Any  application  by  a  certificated  provider  of  telecommunications  services  to  use  County  rights-of-way 
shall be granted or denied within forty-five (45) days after receipt, and, if denied, shall be accompanied by a written 

D.  

C.  

Code Updated May 2020 

22-8 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

F.  

E.  

Nothing  in  this  section  shall  affect  the  type  or  amount  of  fees  payable  by  providers  of  cable 

explanation of the reasons for denial and the actions required to cure the denial. 
 
 
television services pursuant to any existing or future franchise, license or permit granted by the County. 
 
 
Nothing  in  this  section  shall  affect  any  amount  payable  by  any  provider  of  telecommunications 
services for the right to locate towers or other facilities on property of the County other than within the public rights-
of-way, nor shall anything prohibit the County from entering into voluntary pole attachment, conduit occupancy or 
conduit construction agreements with any certificated provider of telecommunications service. 
 
 
use fees it receives under this section for transportation construction or maintenance purposes.  
(Ord. No. 98-19, 10-1-98) 
 
§ 22-8. Withholding Building Permits under Certain Conditions.  
 

The county shall annually expend at least ten percent (10%) of the amount of public rights-of-way 

G.  

Whenever, in the opinion of the County Manager, any person is guilty of any violation of this chapter, and 
for  such  length  of  time  as  there  is  a  continuing  violation,  thereof,  the  County  Manager  is  hereby  authorized  to 
withhold a permit to such owner, or to any person acting for him, to construct any building or other improvement for 
the construction of  which a permit is required by any ordinance or resolution effective in the County of Arlington 
within the subdivision of land where a violation of the chapter has occurred and continues. He may, in his discretion, 
withhold such permit until the condition which constitutes a violation of the chapter has been eliminated.  
(5-23-61) 
 
§ 22-8.1  Permits Issued Before October 1, 2010 by the Commonwealth of Virginia, Department of 

Transportation, for Activity, Work and Installation of Facilities in the Columbia Pike (State Route 
244) Right of Way 

 

A. 

All  facilities,  as  hereinafter  defined,  existing  on  October  1,  2010  in  the  Columbia  Pike  right  of 
way as defined in a certain Quitclaim Deed from the Commonwealth of Virginia to the County Board of Arlington 
County, Virginia pursuant to a permit, agreement, or other written permission duly issued by the Commonwealth of 
Virginia, Department of Transportation, are permitted to remain in the Columbia Pike right of way after the effective 
date of the transfer of such right of way from the Commonwealth to the County Board without the necessity of the 
owner of such facilities obtaining a permit pursuant to this chapter, provided that: 
 

 The permission for such facilities to remain in the right of way shall not be construed as 

1. 
conveying any property right to the owner of the facilities. The permission shall be a mere license, revocable 
at will by the County Manager. 

2. 
between the County Board and the owner of the facilities: 

 Unless otherwise specifically provided by statute or by a fully executed written agreement 

Such owner shall relocate and/or adjust all such facilities located, in whole or in part, 

a. 
within the Columbia Pike right of way when relocation and/or adjustment is necessary to 
facilitate any street, highway and/or transportation improvements;   

The relocation and/or adjustment of the facilities shall be performed by the owner of the 

b. 
facilities at such owner’s sole cost and expense, without delay, and without liability to, or 
obligation of, the County to such owner or to others; 

c. 
The permission for such facilities to remain in the right of way shall not relieve the owner 
thereof, or any other person or entity, of the requirement to obtain permits for work in the right of 
way as otherwise required by this chapter. 

B. 

All permits issued before October 1, 2010, by the Commonwealth of Virginia, Department of 

Transportation, permitting activity or work to be performed, or facilities to be installed, in the Columbia Pike right 
of way, and which activity, work, or installation is not completed as of October 1, 2010, shall be recognized by the 

Code Updated May 2020 

22-9 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

County as fulfilling, until December 31, 2010, the requirements of this chapter, but only for the activities at the 
location(s) specified in such permit, provided that: 

In order to continue any activity, work, or installation in the Columbia Pike right of way after 

1. 
December 31, 2010, the person or entity required by this chapter shall obtain a permit from the County, in 
accordance with this chapter;  

2. 

Such permit shall be obtained not later than January 1, 2011; and, 

The failure of any person, firm or corporation to timely obtain a permit in accordance with 

3. 
subsections B.1 and B.2 above shall constitute a violation of this § 22-8.1 and, upon conviction thereof, 
shall be punishable as provided in § 22-9. 

C. 

For the purposes of this § 22-8.1, the word “facilities” shall refer to and mean any item that is 

built, constructed, installed, or established to perform a particular function or to serve or facilitate a particular end, 
including without limitation, structures, equipment, fixtures, apparatus, tunnels, pipes, box culverts, conduits, wires, 
cables, fiber optic cable lines, utilities, foundations, poles, towers, antennae, telecommunications systems, traffic 
signals, cabinets, benches, retaining walls, landscaping, and appurtenances thereto. 

D. 

Enforcement of this § 22-8.1 shall not preclude the County from enforcing any other provision of 

the Code or of State law concerning the unauthorized use or occupation of the public right of way. 
(Ord. No. 10-16, 6-12-10; effective 7-1-10; Ord. No. 10-18, 9-25-10, effective 10-1-10) 

Permits For Certain Entities To Install And Maintain Small Cell Facilities On Existing 

§22-8.2 
Structures In The Public Rights-Of-Ways Of The County; Application; Fees. 
 
 
follows: 
 

A. 

Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words and phrases are defined as 

“County Code” means The Code of Arlington County, Virginia 1957, as amended. 
 
“County Manager” means the Manager of Arlington County, Virginia or his/her designee. 
 
“Existing structure(s)” means any structure that is installed or approved for installation at the time a 
wireless services provider or wireless infrastructure provider provides notice to a locality or the 
Department of an agreement with the owner of the structure to co-locate equipment on that structure.  
 
“Existing structure” includes any structure that is currently supporting, designed to support, or capable of 
supporting the attachment of wireless facilities, including towers, buildings, utility poles, light poles, flag 
poles, signs, and water towers.  
 
“Public rights-of-way” means all highways, streets, boulevards, and thoroughfares, irrespective of 
the type of legal interest or how such interest was acquired, under the jurisdiction of, and operated 
and maintained by, the County Board. 
 
“Small cell facility” means a wireless facility that meets both of the following qualifications: (i) each 
antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume, or, in the case of an 
antenna that has exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an 
imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet and (ii) all other wireless equipment associated with 
the facility has a cumulative volume of no more than 28 cubic feet, or such higher limit as is established 
by the Federal Communications Commission. The following types of associated equipment are not 
included in the calculation of equipment volume; electric meter, concealment, telecommunications, 
demarcation boxes, ground-based enclosures, back-up power systems, grounding equipment, power 
transfer switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services. 
 
“Small cell permit” means a permit(s) issued pursuant to this section. 
 
“Wireless infrastructure provider(s)” means any person, including a person authorized to provide 

Code Updated May 2020 

22-10 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

telecommunications service in the state, that builds or installs transmission equipment, wireless 
facilities, or wireless support structures, but that is not a wireless services provider. 
 
“Wireless services” means (i) “personal wireless services” as defined in 47 U.S.C. §332(c) (7) (C) (i); (ii) 
“personal wireless services facilities” as defined in 47 U.S.C. §332(c) (7) (C) (ii), “including commercial 
mobile services” as defined in 47 U.S.C. §332(d), provided to personal mobile communication devices 
through wireless facilities; and (iii) any other fixed or mobile wireless service, using licensed or 
unlicensed spectrum, provided using wireless facilities. 
 
“Wireless services provider(s)” means a provider of wireless services. 

 

 

 

 

B. 
It shall be unlawful for any wireless service provider, wireless infrastructure provider, or any 
other person or entity to install, attach or maintain, or cause to be installed, attached, or maintained, a 
small cell facility on an existing structure in the public rights-of-way without having first obtained a 
small cell permit and satisfied all of the requirements of this section and such permit. 
 
C. 
Upon receipt and acceptance of complete applications from, and signed by, wireless service 
providers or wireless infrastructure providers, and upon satisfaction of all applicable requirements of 
the County Code and the County Manager, he/she is authorized to issue small cell permits to wireless 
service providers and wireless infrastructure providers to install and maintain small cell facilities on 
existing structures in the public rights-of-way. 
 
D. 
 
1. 
locate small cell equipment on each such structure; 
 
2. 
of-way permits for each such structure; and 
 
3. 

completed applications for all public right-of-way permits and for all transportation right-

all documents and information required by the County Manager. 

Each application shall be accompanied by the following: 

documentary evidence that the applicant has permission from the owner of each structure to co-

a. 

b. 

c. 

No small cell permit shall be issued until the applicant has paid to the County a small 
cell permit application processing fee in the amount of $250.00. 

The issuance of a small cell permit, pursuant to this section, shall not relieve the 
applicant, and all others of their independent legal obligations to comply with all 
applicable provisions and requirements of this Chapter and the County Code 
concerning, without limitation: planning and zoning approval; building, electrical and 
related permits; permits and ordinances for occupation of, work in, and use of, the 
public rights of way including, without limitation, public right-of-way permits, 
transportation right-of-way permits, and the payment of associated fees and charges to 
satisfy each of the above described provisions and requirements. 

The County Manager is authorized to implement this section through the creation of all 
necessary applications, procedures, requirements, conditions, standards and 
specifications (collectively, “Requirements”). Each applicant shall strictly comply with 
all such Requirements. 

 (Ord. No 17-09, 6-17-17; Ord. No. 19-09, 7-16-19, effective 8-1-19) 

 

 
§ 22-9. Penalty.  
 

Any person, firm or corporation, who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 4 
misdemeanor,  and,  upon  conviction  thereof,  shall  be  punished  by  a  fine  as  provided  by  law  for  Class  4 
misdemeanors. Where there is a continuing violation of this chapter from day to day each violation shall constitute a 

Code Updated May 2020 

22-11 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        STREET DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION 

separate offense.  
(5-23-61; Ord. No. 08-07, 4-19-08, effective 7-1-08) 
 
§ 22-10. Repeal of Previous Ordinance.  
 

The ordinance of the same name adopted by the County Board on October 13, 1952, is hereby repealed on 

the effective date of this chapter.  
(5-23-61) 

Code Updated May 2020 

22-12 

