ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

  

 
 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

 

Chapter 23 

 

SUBDIVISIONS 

§ 23-1. Definition of "Subdivision"; Certain Subdivisions Exempted from Chapter. 
§ 23-2. Ordinance Purpose. 
§ 23-3. Plat Prerequisite to Subdivision of Land, Recordation of Plat; Plat to Meet 
Requirements of Chapter. 
§ 23-4. Approval of Plat by County Manager. 
§ 23-5. General Requirements. 
§ 23-6. Streets Generally. 
§ 23-7. Acreage Subdivisions. 
§ 23-8. Preliminary Plats. 
§ 23-9. Final Plats. 
§ 23-10. Platting of Condominiums and Cooperatives. 
§ 23-11. Plat Review and Bond Administration Fees. 
§ 23-12. Compliance with Chapter Prerequisite to Issuance of Permit for Construction of 
Building or Other Improvement. 
§ 23-13. Penalty for Violation of Chapter. 
§ 23-14. Separability. 
§ 23-15. Enforcement. 

 
 
§ 23-1. Definition of "Subdivision"; Certain Subdivisions Exempted from Chapter.  
 

The word "subdivision," as used in this chapter, is hereby defined as the division or redivision of a tract, lot 
or parcel of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots, outlots or parcels; the consolidation of two (2) or more lots, outlots 
or  parcels;  or the horizontal  division  or redivision  of  airspace.  Parcels  of  airspace  shall  constitute  land  within the 
meaning of this chapter, provided that the horizontal division or redivision of airspace shall be limited to three (3) or 
fewer divisions or redivisions, and shall be limited to land restricted to commercial, industrial or other nonresidential 
use.  

 
As  used  in  this  chapter,  "subdivision"  shall  also  mean  the  conversion  to  condominiums  of  all  land, 
buildings  and  structures  as  provided  for  in  the  "Condominium  Act."  Land,  buildings  and  structures  shall  be 
considered  to  have  been  converted  when  all  condominium  instruments  required  by  the  "Condominium  Act"  have 
been recorded.  

 
This chapter shall not apply to the sale or conveyance of any parcel of land which may be shown as one of 
the lots of a subdivision of which a plat has heretofore been lawfully recorded among the land records of the County 
of Arlington, Virginia, prior to the effective date of this chapter.  

 
This  chapter  shall not  apply  to  a  division  of  land  which  creates  only  one area  of  land to  be  conveyed  for 
public street or public utilities purposes, or both, in addition to the remainder of the area of which it is a part, so long 
as the area of which it is a part is shown on an approved subdivision plat.  

 
This  chapter  shall  not  apply  to  a  division  of  land  made  solely  for  the  conveyance  of  land  for  public 

purposes to or by the County Board of Arlington County, Virginia.  

 
As of July 1, 1990, the subdivision of a lot or parcel for the purpose of sale or gift of such lot or parcel to a 

member of the immediate family of the owner shall be subject to all the requirements of this chapter.  
(4-1-59; Ord. No. 84-22, 8-18-84; Ord. No. 85-30, 8-17-85; Ord. No. 89-2, 11-20-88; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 
 

Code Updated May 2020 

23-1 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

§ 23-2. Ordinance Purpose.  
 

The purpose of this chapter is to provide for: 
 
A. 

I. 

F. 

E. 

C. 

B. 

H. 

G. 

D. 

Protection of outstanding natural, scenic or cultural features and historic sites or structures. 

The approval and recordation  of  public  easements  over  existing  or  proposed  underground public 

Adequate, properly designed and constructed public streets, sidewalks, bicycle trails, water mains, 

The establishment of procedures, fees and standards which are required in order to subdivide land 

The orderly subdivision of land for the purpose of sale, exchange or conveyance between property 

The  survey  and  recordation  of  defined  property  boundaries,  and  placement  of  monuments  at 

Minimizing  the  creation  of  parcels  or  outlots  which  lack  access  or  adequate  public  facilities,  or 

The  coordination  of  streets  within  subdivisions,  and  with  existing  and  planned  streets,  and 

The provision of proper erosion and sedimentation control, drainage, stormwater management and 

  
owners. 
 
  
in Arlington County. 
 
  
conformance of streets with master and other County transportation plans. 
 
  
storm drainage facilities, sanitary sewers, and street lighting facilities to serve newly-subdivided properties. 
 
  
and private utilities. 
 
  
property corners. 
 
  
which are for other reasons unbuildable. 
 
  
 
  
flood control. 
 
  
(Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 
 
§ 23-3. Plat Prerequisite to Subdivision of Land, Recordation of Plat; Plat to Meet Requirements of Chapter. 
 
No person shall subdivide any tract of land which is located wholly or in part in Arlington County, 
 
Virginia, nor shall any person sell, exchange or purchase or offer to purchase any lot, outlot or parcel of land which 
is part of a subdivision of a larger tract of land, nor shall any person offer for recordation any deed conveying such a 
lot, outlot or parcel of land, or any interest therein, unless he or she shall first have made, or caused to have made, a 
plat thereof. The plat shall be recorded before or at the time such sale, exchange or purchase is effected and shall be 
in accordance with all of the requirements of this chapter. 
 
 
All land, buildings and structures which are converted to or created as condominiums shall comply 
with the Arlington Subdivisions Ordinance as it exists at the time of conversion or creation. There shall be no vested 
rights established upon conversion to or creation of condominiums or the use thereof if either the condominiums or 
the uses thereof do not conform to this chapter, any provision of law to the contrary notwithstanding. A plat which 
divides  land  and  airspace  horizontally  shall  describe  upper  and  lower  horizontal  boundaries  of  the  airspace  with 
reference to established datum. 
 
 
The Clerk of the Circuit Court shall not file or record any such plat or any copy thereof required 
by  this  chapter  to  be  recorded  until  a  copy  of  such  plat  shall  have  been  approved,  and  such  approval  evidenced 
thereon in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. 
 
 
of Real Estate Assessments within thirty (30) days of recordation.  
(4-1-59; 12-21-74; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 

The person offering such an approved plat for recordation shall notify, in writing, the Department 

Such other and further matters as are warranted by the provisions of this chapter.  

D.  

A.  

B.  

C.  

J. 

Code Updated May 2020 

23-2 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

 
§ 23-4. Approval of Plat by County Manager.  
 

No such plat referred to in § 23-3 of this Code shall be recorded or offered for record until the plat has been 
approved,  in  writing,  by  the  County  Manager  of  Arlington County,  Virginia,  or his  designee,  who  shall  ascertain, 
before  approving  it,  that  the  plat  has  satisfied  all  the  requirements  of  this  chapter,  as  well  as  those  of  any  other 
County ordinance.  

 
The following lots and lot lines are validated and legal under the subdivisions ordinance, provided that this 

validation in no way relieves lots and lot lines from requirements imposed by the Zoning Ordinance: 

 
A. 

B. 

Lots shown on preliminary or final subdivision plats which have received  County approval prior 

  
Lots  shown  on  preliminary  or  final  subdivision  plats  which  have  been  submitted  prior  to  the 
effective  date  of  this  ordinance  [chapter],  provided  that  they  are  approved  no  more  than  six  (6)  months  after  the 
effective date, and are subsequently recorded. 
 
  
to the effective date of the ordinance [chapter], and have been recorded within six (6) months. 
 
  
adjacent lots subsequently created.  
(4-1-59; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 
 
§ 23-5. General Requirements. 
 

Any property line which was created by a final subdivision plat shall qualify as a valid lot line for 

C. 

A.  

Definitions.  All terms defined under various sections of the Arlington County, Virginia, Building 
Code  and  the  Arlington  County,  Virginia,  Zoning  Ordinance,  where  occurring  in  these regulations,  shall have  the 
meanings specified in said Code and Ordinance, except where otherwise defined in these regulations. 

 
The  following  words and  terms,  when used  in  this  chapter,  shall have  the  following  meanings  unless  the 

context clearly indicates otherwise:  
 

“Alley” means a right-of-way, other than a street, which provides service access for vehicles to the side or 

rear of abutting properties.  

 
“Block face” means a segment of street bounded by connecting cross streets, or bounded by a cul-de-sac or 

dead-end and a successive cross street, or between two (2) successive cul-de-sacs or dead-ends.  

 
“Corner lot” means a lot having frontage on both of two (2) intersecting streets at the point of intersection.  
 
“County Manager” means the County Manager of Arlington County, Virginia.  
 
“Cul-de-sac”  means  a  minor  street  with  only  one  (1)  outlet  and  having  a  terminal  for  reversal  of  traffic 

movement that meets the minimum requirements of this chapter.  

 
“Dead-end  street”  means  a  street having  only  one  (1)  outlet  and lacking  turnaround  facilities  which meet 

the requirements of this chapter.  

 
“Double frontage lot” means a lot, other than a corner lot, having frontage on two (2) streets.  
 
“Easement” means a right of use over the property of another, including easements in gross.  
 
“Effective  date”  means  the  date  on  which  this  chapter  is  officially  adopted  by  the  County  Board  of 

Arlington County, Virginia.  

 
“Frontage” means  the  length  of  the  property  line  of  any  lot,  lots  or  tract  of  land  measured along  a  public 

street on which the lot, lots or tract of land abuts.  

Code Updated May 2020 

23-3 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

 
“Lot” means a unit of land usable as a building site, which conforms to the  Zoning Ordinance and has the 
minimum frontage on a public street required by this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance or both. Also, a unit of land for 
attached  dwellings  with no  more  than  one (1)  unattached  dwelling,  where  shared  common areas  provide  adequate 
access to public street frontage through common areas which connect a public street or streets and any lot or lots for 
any such attached dwelling unit including no more than one (1) detached dwelling unit which has any less than the 
minimum frontage required on a public street. Lot shall also mean a horizontal division of property which conforms 
to the Zoning Ordinance and which has for its enjoyment subadjacent support and access on the surface land which 
meets  the  requirements  for  minimum  frontage  on  a  public  street  and  the  standards  for  adequacy  of  access  of  this 
chapter.  
 
“Master transportation plan” means a comprehensive plan of transportation goals, objectives, principles and 

facilities that has been adopted pursuant to State law as an element of the Arlington County Comprehensive Plan.  

 
“Offset intersection” means an intersection in which exists a centerline offset.  
 
“Outlot” means a unit of land not usable as a building site and substandard to the Zoning Ordinance.  
 
“Parcel”  means  a  unit  of  land  of  such  size  and  dimensions  that  it  may  be  divided  into  two  (2)  or  more 

tracts, buildable lots or outlots.  

 
“Performance  agreement”  means  an  agreement  between  a  subdivider  and  the  County  which  requires  the 
subdivider  to  construct  public  improvements  required  by  the  Subdivisions  Ordinance  within  a  specified  period  of 
time.  

 
“Public  improvement”  means  construction  of  a  public  street,  sidewalk,  street  light,  street  landscaping, 
bicycle  trail,  water  main,  sanitary  or  storm  sewer,  or  any  part  or  section  thereof,  to  the  County  standards  and 
specifications required along the frontage of, or within any lot, of any property being subdivided.  

 
“Service drive” means a public street generally  parallel and contiguous to a main traveled way, primarily 
designed  to promote  safety  by  eliminating promiscuous  ingress and  egress  to the right-of-way,  and  providing  safe 
and orderly points of access at fairly uniformly spaced intervals.  

 
“Street” means the right-of-way space or area of a way thirty (30) feet or more in width abutting the front 
or side property lines of lots and providing a public thoroughfare for vehicles and pedestrians, and adequately paved, 
drained, lighted, marked and maintained to do so, or bonded for provision of such improvements.  

 
“Zoning Ordinance” means the Arlington County, Virginia, Zoning Ordinance, as amended.  
 
B.  

Minimum  requirements.  The  following  shall  be  considered  minimum  requirements  and  shall  be 

 
varied only in specific cases: 
 
  

1. 

All  streets  and  connections  of  new  public  rights-of-way  to  existing  streets  shall  conform  to  the 
master transportation plan for the County, both as to location and width. Any subdivider proposing 
a new street or connection which is not shown on or is significantly different in location or width 
from  that  shown  on  the  master  transportation  plan  shall  petition  the  Planning  Commission  and 
County  Board  and  receive  the  County  Board's  approval  for  an  amendment  to  the  master 
transportation plan to include the proposed street before receiving final subdivision plat approval. 
The  County  Manager  or  his  designee  shall  have  the  authority  to  approve  new  cul-de-sac  streets 
which  are  not  shown  on  the  master  transportation  plan  if  the  County  Manager  or  his  designee 
determines that no more than fifty (50) new lots zoned for one-family, two-family, or town house 
dwellings will front on any new length of cul-de-sac street. 

 
  

2. 

The minimum width for minor streets shall be fifty (50) feet except that in cases where topography 
or  special  conditions  make  a  street  of  less  width  more  practical,  the  County  Manager  or  his 
designee  may  modify  the  above  requirements.  Provided,  however,  that  the  minimum  width  for 

Code Updated May 2020 

23-4 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

cul-de-sacs  shall  in no  event  be  less than  forty  (40)  feet,  and  further  provided  that  the  minimum 
width  for  streets  in  residential  cluster  developments  or  in  unified  residential  developments  as 
provided for in the Arlington County, Virginia, Zoning Ordinance, shall in no event be less than 
forty  (40)  feet,  as  approved  by  the  County  Board  pursuant  to  the  Zoning  Ordinance.  A  partial 
width street may be dedicated when adjoining undeveloped property. The width of a partial street 
shall be thirty (30) feet or as determined by the County Manager or his designee. 

Subdivisions  shall  not  create  public  alleys.  Private  alleys  shall  be  built  to  a  minimum  width  of 
twenty  (20)  feet,  and  shall  meet  the  requirements  of  Arlington  County  in  effect  for  street 
construction. The minimum radius of any alley intersection shall be twenty-five (25) feet. 

Easements  of  not  less  than  ten  (10)  feet  in  width  shall  be  provided  for  public  poles,  wires, 
conduits,  stormwater,  sanitary  sewers,  gas  and  water  lines.  Easements  of  greater  width  may  be 
required where necessary for surface overflow, large subsurface structures, or for the extension of 
main sewers or similar utilities. 

Blocks  shall  have  sufficient  width  to  provide  for  two  (2)  tiers  of  lots  of  an  appropriate  depth, 
except  where  this  requirement  would  result  in  a  subdivision  being  able  to  create  fewer  than 
seventy-five percent (75%) of the potential lots that would otherwise be permitted. 

A  public  walkway  easement  at  least  ten  (10)  feet  wide  shall  be  required  for  pedestrian  traffic 
between  streets  where  the  distance  from  the  front  of  any  lot  created  to  the  nearest  intersecting 
street or walkway on that blockface is four hundred (400) feet or more. 

Newly created block faces may not exceed twelve hundred (1,200) feet in length. 

For the first twenty-five (25) feet back from the front lot line, side lot lines shall not vary from a 
perpendicular  or radial  to  the  street  by  more  than  five  (5) degrees.  Beyond  twenty-five  (25)  feet 
back from the front lot line, a side lot line is permitted to change its bearing up to three (3) times. 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

f. 

Side  lot  lines  for  subdivisions  entirely  within  commercial  or  industrial  zoning  districts 
must  be  straight  within  the  first twenty-five  (25)  feet  back  from  the  front  lot  line.  They 
are not required to  be  within  five  (5)  degrees  of  perpendicular  or radial  to the  street  for 
that distance. 

A parcel's existing recorded property lines may serve as side lot lines. 

Side lot lines which front on public streets are exempted from the requirements. 

Portions of lots used to meet the requirement for adequate access which are narrower than 
the  minimum  average  width  requirement  of  the  Zoning  Ordinance  must  maintain  a 
minimum width of forty (40) feet, except for those lots meeting the conditions specified 
in § 23-5.B.9.d. 

Where a subdivision of land is subject to a site plan approved under  section 36.H of the 
Zoning Ordinance, side lot lines in it, when authorized by the site plan, need not conform 
to the foregoing requirements. 

Plats, lots and lot side lines approved before the effective date of this ordinance [chapter], 
and valid when approved, or validated on June 24, 1989, shall continue to be valid unless 
changed by resubdivision. 

9. 

All  lots  shall  conform  to  the  requirements  set  forth  in  the  Arlington  County,  Virginia,  Zoning 
Ordinance. 

a. 

Every lot shall have a minimum of forty (40) feet of frontage abutting on a public street 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

Code Updated May 2020 

23-5 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

adequate  for  the  entry  of  motor  vehicles  to  the  lot  except  as  provided  in  the  following 
subsections b, c, d and e. 

To  the  extent  that lot  frontages  of  less  than  forty  (40)  feet  are  approved  by  the  County 
Board pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance, lots in residential cluster developments, lots in 
unified  residential  developments,  or  a  lot  for  the  one  (1)  detached  unit  permitted  in  a 
subdivision of attached units, shall have a minimum of twenty (20) feet of frontage on a 
public street. 

Lots for attached dwelling units shall have a minimum frontage of sixteen (16) feet on a 
public street or shall have adequate access as defined in  § 23-5.B.18, except for lots for 
attached dwelling units in an "RA" zoning district which shall have a minimum frontage 
of  fourteen  (14)  feet  on  a  public  street  and  adequate  access  as  defined  in  §  23-5.B.18, 
provided  that  motor  vehicle  access  to  these  lots  not  be  through  their  public  street 
frontage. 

Where a lot fronts on a cul-de-sac or the dead-end portion of a street, or its frontage runs 
along an intersecting angle or curve along the street right-of-way that has similar frontage 
development characteristics to a cul-de-sac, the street frontage may be reduced to no less 
than  twenty-five  (25)  feet  if  the  distance  between  side  lot  lines  increases  continuously 
from the front property line, until the lot dimensions reach the average width required and 
the lot conforms to the minimum requirements of the Zoning Ordinance. 

A lot which does not have frontage on a public street need not comply with subsection A 
when such lot is in a commercial zoning district, is subject to a site plan approved under 
Section 36.H. of the Zoning Ordinance and has access to a public street through at least 
one  (1)  easement  or  common  way  reasonably  adequate  for  utilities,  pedestrians  and 
movable property, fire and other emergency access. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

Property lines at corners of all intersecting street rights-of-way shall be rounded by an arc having a 
radius of not less than sixteen and one-half (16 1/2) feet. 

Street  names  will  be  provided  by  the  County  Manager,  or  his  designee,  to  conform  with  the 
uniform  plan  for  street  names  heretofore  adopted  by  the  County.  Numbered  streets  shall  be 
designated by suffix north or south. Named streets shall be designated by prefix north or south. 

Monuments of iron pipe, stone, concrete or other permanent nature at least twenty-four (24) inches 
long shall be set at all corner and angle points in the outer lines of the subdivision, all corner and 
angle points of property lines, all tangent points of street intersections, and at all points of angle 
and  curvature  in  the  right-of-way  lines  of  all  streets.  Monuments  shall  be  set  by  certified  land 
surveyors  or  County  employees  designated  by  the  County  Manager.  There  shall  be  at least three 
(3) monuments of stone or concrete in each block. The top of all monuments shall not be less than 
one  (1)  inch  or  more  than  six  (6)  inches  above  the  finished  grade  of  the  ground  surface  at  their 
respective  locations.  Streets  will  not  be  accepted  into  the  County  street  system  unless  and  until 
these monuments are placed as required. No monument shall be removed or tampered with in any 
way whatsoever without the permission of the County Manager. 

In the event the subdivision is traversed by any watercourse or channel, stream or creek, either live 
or  dry,  the  subdivider  shall  dedicate  an  easement  or  a  right-of-way  for  storm  drainage  purposes 
conforming  substantially  with  the  lines  of  the  floodplain  as  approved  by  the  Arlington  County 
Manager, or his designee, of such natural watercourse or channel, stream or creek, or provide and 
dedicate to the County where required above, an adequate storm drainage system and stormwater 
detention system for the handling of storm flow from and through the property. The storm sewer 
system  implemented  to  handle  the  flow  shall  be  designed  in  accordance  with  the  Stormwater 
Detention Ordinance, Chapter 60 of the Code of Arlington County, Virginia. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 

Code Updated May 2020 

23-6 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

Indiscriminate use of easements for public street purposes will not be allowed. The necessity  for 
such easements shall be determined by the County Manager. 

Any variance or special exception required before approval of a subdivision or resubdivision plat 
shall be acquired before final approval and recorded on the final plat. 

A  subdivision  may  be  vacated  with the  consent  of  the  owner(s)  and  the  approval  of  the  County 
Manager.  The  plat  and  deed  of  vacation  shall  be  properly  recorded  among  the  land  records  of 
Arlington County, Virginia. 

The  recorded  subdivision  name  of  any  part  of  a  subdivision  can  be  changed  to  a  new  name 
indicated  on  a  final  subdivision  plat  submitted  for  approval  by  vacating  and  rededicating  the 
existing recorded subdivision name. 

18. 

Standards for adequacy of access to attached dwelling units: 

a. 

b. 

Wherever  lots  for  attached  dwelling  units,  including  lots  for  no  more  than  one  (1) 
detached dwelling unit in a subdivision of attached units, do not have a minimum sixteen 
(16) feet of access on a public street, or are located in an "RA" zoning district with less 
than sixteen (16) feet of access on a public street, then such attached dwelling units shall 
have sixteen (16) feet, or at least fourteen (14) feet for such attached dwelling units in an 
"RA" zoning district, of access reasonably adequate for utilities, pedestrians and movable 
property  through  at  least  one  (1)  easement  or  common  way  which  shall  provide  this 
access  between  each  common  lot  for  a  unit  and  a  public  street,  which  easement  or 
common  way  shall have  a minimum  of  twenty  (20)  feet  of  width  free  of  structures  and 
uses not permitted in front yard setbacks. No more than one (1) detached dwelling may 
be  permitted  in  front  yard  setbacks.  No  more  than  one  (1)  detached  dwelling  may  be 
permitted  to  have  access  to  a  public  street  through  a  common  easement  shared  with 
attached units, provided that the lot for such detached dwellings shall have a minimum of 
forty (40) feet of frontage on the common easement. Such lots shall also have access for 
fire and other emergencies through any additional easement or common way necessary to 
provide such access and to permit compliance of any structure placed on the lots with fire 
prevention  and  building  codes  and  to  be  situated  and  constructed  consistently  with 
prevailing  standards  for  fire  prevention  and  suppression  as  determined  by  the  Fire 
Marshal. 

Easements  or  common  ways  for  vehicles  shall  be  paved  to  a  minimum  of  twenty-three 
(23) feet wide and be built to the requirements of the street and storm sewer construction 
specifications of Arlington County as from time to time in effect for the construction of 
County streets. Access to common parking areas and the aisles of parking areas shall also 
be  constructed  with  the  minimum  width  and  construction  specifications  required  for 
access by motor vehicles, provided that the width required for aisles shall be no less than 
the  minimum  set  by  the  Zoning  Ordinance.  Pedestrian  access  from  individual  lots  to  a 
parking area or a public street through a common way shall be provided with a minimum 
of one (1) four (4) foot wide walkway in areas designated on the general land use plan for 
one (1) to fifteen (15) units per acre and six (6) feet wide in other areas. Any subdivision 
in  an  "RA"  zoning  district  containing  lots  less  than  sixteen  (16)  feet  wide  shall  have  a 
common parking area reasonably adequate to serve all units in the subdivision. 

19. 

In  any  horizontal  division  or redivision  of  land, a document  providing  for  easements  for access, 
parking, emergency, governmental and proprietary functions, utilities, encroachment and support 
shall  be  submitted to  and approved  by  the  County  Manager  or his  designee  for  compliance  with 
County ordinances and regulations. No horizontal division or redivision of land shall be used for 
the evasion of the "Condominium Act." 

C.  

Public physical improvements: 

Code Updated May 2020 

23-7 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

1. 

2. 

 
  

 
  

 

  

3. 

Public street facilities, walkways, storm sewer management facilities, lighting, trails, utilities and 
other public facilities required by § 23-5.B of this chapter shall be constructed by the subdivider in 
conformance with the Arlington County Code. 

Before  final  plat  approval,  after  all  other  required  approvals  are  obtained,  all  physical  public 
improvements  dedicated  for  public  use  and  maintained  by  the  County,  Commonwealth  or  other 
public  agency  shall  be  installed  and  completed  at  the  expense  of  the  subdivider. The  subdivider 
shall provide a certificate to the County Manager, or his designee, that the construction costs have 
been  paid  to  the  person  constructing  such  improvements.  In  lieu  of  actual  completion,  the 
subdivider may obtain final plat approval by furnishing to the County Manager, or his designee, a 
certified check, surety bond or a bank or savings and loan association's letter of credit, sufficient to 
cover the costs of all improvements required by the  County. The amount of such certified check, 
surety bond or letter of credit shall not exceed the total of the estimated cost of construction based 
on  unit  prices  for  new  public  or  private  sector  construction  in  the  locality  and  a  reasonable 
allowance  for  estimated administrative  costs,  inflation and potential  damage  to  existing roads  or 
utilities.  

Partial  releases  may  be  made  of  such  certified  check,  bond  or  letter  of  credit  in  a  cumulative 
amount of no more than eighty percent (80%) of the original amount for which the certified check, 
bond  or  letter  of  credit  was  taken,  based  upon  the  percentage  of  the  facilities  completed  and 
approved by the County Manager, or his designee. Periodic partial releases may not occur before 
the  completion  of  at  least  thirty  percent  (30%)  of  the  facilities  covered  by  any  bond,  letter  of 
credit, or other performance guarantee, or after completion of more than eighty percent (80%) of 
said  facilities. The  County  Manager,  or his  designee,  shall not  be required to  execute  more  than 
three (3) partial releases, in any twelve (12) month period. Upon final completion, in accordance 
with  the  required  specifications,  and  acceptance  of  said  facilities,  the  County  Manager,  or  his 
designee, shall release any remaining bond, letter of credit, or other performance guarantee to the 
subdivider or developer. For the purpose of final release the term "acceptance" is deemed to mean: 
when said public facility is accepted by and taken over for operation and maintenance by the State 
agency  or  County  department  which  is  responsible  for  maintaining  and  operating  such  facility 
upon acceptance.  
 
Whenever a preliminary plat or final plat includes a proposed dedication of land for public use and 
the County Manager, or his designee, finds that such land is not required or not suitable for public 
use, the County Manager, or his designee, may either refuse to approve such dedication or require 
the rearrangement of lots in the proposed subdivision to include such land. 
 
The  subdivider  shall  pay  or  provide  for  the  payment  of  his  or  her  pro  rata  share  of  the  cost  of 
providing  reasonable  and  necessary  sewer,  water  and  drainage  facilities  located  outside  the 
property limits of the land owned or controlled by him or her but necessitated or required by the 
construction  or  improvement  of  his  or  her  subdivision  or  development  when  the  County  has 
established a general sewer, water and drainage improvement program for an area having related 
and common sewer, water and drainage conditions, and when the land owned or controlled by the 
subdivider is located within that area. The program shall have reasonable standards to determine 
the proportionate share of the total estimated cost of ultimate sewer, water and drainage facilities 
required adequately  to  serve  a  related and  common area,  when  and  if  fully  developed  in  accord 
with  the  comprehensive  plan,  that  shall  be  borne  by  each  subdivider  within  the  area.  Each 
subdivider's  share  shall  be  limited  to  the  proportion  of  such  total  estimated  cost  which  the 
increased sewage flow, water flow and increased volume and velocity of storm water runoff to be 
actually caused by his or her subdivision bears to the total estimated volume and velocity of such 
sewage, water and runoff from such area in its fully developed state. Each such payment received 
shall be expended only for the construction of those facilities for which the payment was required 
and until so extended shall be held in an interest-bearing account for the benefit of the subdivider; 
however,  in  lieu  of  such  payment,  the  County  Manager  may  accept  the  posting  of  a  bond  with 
surety satisfactory to it conditioned on payment at commencement of such construction.  

Code Updated May 2020 

23-8 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

(4-1-59; 2-7-70; 9-11-76; 6-9-79; 10-20-81; Ord. No. 83-7, 3-5-83; Ord. No. 84-22, 8-18-84; Ord. No. 85-31, 8-17-
85;  Ord.  No. 89-19,  6-24-89;  Ord.  No.  90-3,  4-7-90;  Ord. No.  90-13,  6-28-90;  Ord.  No.  92-48,  9-26-92;  Ord.  No. 
99-6, 4-10-99) 
 
§ 23-6. Streets Generally. 
 
 
 
  

Arrangement of streets and alleys with reference to adjoining street system: 

The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provisions for the continuation of the 
principal  existing  streets  in  adjoining  subdivisions,  or  their  proper  projections  when  adjoining 
property is not subdivided. 

A.  

1. 

 
  

2. 

In general, such streets shall be at least as wide as existing streets, except that in no case shall the 
width be less than fifty (50) feet or as specified in the master plan unless the street is a cul-de-sac 
dedicated  with  a  subdivision,  or  a  street  dedicated  as  part  of  a  residential  cluster  or  unified 
residential development as provided for in the Arlington County, Virginia, Zoning Ordinance, or a 
partial width street dedicated pursuant to § 23-5.B.2. 

B.  

 
 
Cul-de-sac streets shall have a turnaround at the end with a minimum radius of forty-five (45) feet, 
as measured from the street centerline to the back of sidewalk, or a hammerhead turnaround with a rectangular area 
measuring  at  least  eighty  (80)  feet  in  total  width  and  at  least  forty  (40)  feet  in  each  direction  from  the  street 
centerline  when  measured  at  the  end  of  the  street  on  which  the  turnaround  is  located  and  perpendicular  to  the 
centerline.  Such turnaround  shall have  its  minimum  80-foot  length  for at least  twenty  (20)  feet, as  measured  from 
the end of the street towards the throat of the cul-de-sac, and be connected to the street with reverse curves having 
radii of twenty-five (25) feet to the right-of-way at the back of the sidewalk along the throat of the cul-de-sac. Dead-
end streets lacking turnarounds shall not be permitted. 
 
 
 
  

The  minimum  width  of  minor  streets  shall  be  fifty  (50)  feet,  or  as  designated  by  the  master 
thoroughfare plan. 

Minimum widths: 

C.  

1. 

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

The  minimum  width  of  collector  streets  shall  be  sixty  (60)  feet,  or  as  designated  by  the  major 
thoroughfare plan. 

The  minimum  width  of  major  thoroughfares  shall  be  eighty  (80)  feet,  or  as  designated  by  the 
major thoroughfare plan. 

4. 

E.  

D.  

The minimum width for service drives shall be thirty (30) feet. 

 
  
 
 
Proposed  streets  shall  intersect  one  another  as  nearly  at  right  angles  as  topography  and  other 
limiting factors of good design permit. Offset intersections shall be avoided. If such an intersection is unavoidable, 
there shall be a distance of at least one hundred fifty (150) feet between centerlines. 
 
 
No subdivisions showing reserve strips controlling access to public ways will be approved except 
when the control and disposal of land comprising such strips are definitely placed within the  County's jurisdiction 
under conditions meeting the approval of the County Manager.  
(4-1-59; Ord. No. 90-3, 4-7-90; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90; Ord. No. 99-6, 4-10-99) 
 
§ 23-7. Acreage Subdivisions. 
 
 
divided so as to provide for the opening and extension of streets. 
 
 
If  a  developer  owns  more  than  twenty-five  (25)  acres  in  one  (1)  tract,  and  intends  to  develop  a 
portion of it, he or she need submit a plat of twenty-five (25) acres only. If the tract is twenty-five (25) acres or less, 

When  a  parcel is  subdivided  into larger  tracts  than  for normal  building  lots,  such  parcel  shall  be 

A.  

B.  

Code Updated May 2020 

23-9 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

C.  

D.  

Where deemed necessary, temporary vehicular turnarounds shall be provided.  

When  a  subdivision  is  created  from  part  of  a  larger  tract  last  arranged  as  a  single  tract,  the 

he or she must present a plat of the entire tract. 
 
 
remaining area of the tract not being subdivided shall be stated clearly on the plat. 
 
 
(4-1-59; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 
 
§ 23-8. Preliminary Plats. 
 
Submission. In seeking to subdivide land into building lots and/or to dedicate street rights-of-way, 
 
alleys or other lands for public use, the owner or owners shall submit six (6) copies of a preliminary plat, so marked, 
to the County Manager or his designee for approval before submitting the final plat. 
 
 
(50) feet, and shall show: 
 
  

Scale; contents. The preliminary plat shall be drawn to scale not smaller than one (1) inch to fifty 

Existing  property  lines,  streets  and  alleys  with  their  names,  street  centerlines,  public  easements, 
buildings, watercourses, limits of clearing, and other existing features. 

A.  

B.  

1. 

 
  

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded, where possible, and the name of 
the proprietor or subdivider. 

The location of existing public sewer and water lines. 

Date, north arrow, scale, and name of the surveyor. 

All plats shall be referenced to the nearest cross street. 

The  names  of  all  adjoining  subdivisions  showing  lines  and  numbers  of  abutting  lots  and  the 
locations,  names  and  width  of  existing  streets  and  alleys  and  similar  facts  regarding  property 
which is immediately adjacent, including adjoining properties not subdivided. 

Contour map. The preliminary plat shall depict the topography of the area, the limits for clearing 
and grading, and other proposed alterations of the area. 

Current real property assessment identification numbers must be shown for all properties involved 
in subdivisions, as well as for all other lots shown on the plat. 

A  blank  space,  three  (3)  inches  in  width  and  six  (6)  inches  in  length,  in  which  the  preliminary 
stamp may be placed. 

10. 

All  dimensions,  both  linear  and  angular,  for  locating  boundaries  of  subdivisions,  lots,  streets, 
public easements and private easements. The linear dimensions shall be expressed by bearings and 
distances. 

C.  

Checking. Preliminary plats will be checked for: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Conformity to the master transportation plan of the County. 

Conformity to the existing and probable development of adjacent properties. 

Conformity to the existing street improvements construction specifications for Arlington County. 

Lot size, arrangement and access to a public street. 

Code Updated May 2020 

23-10 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

6. 

5. 

E.  

D.  

Necessary drainage, sanitary sewer and public utility easements. 

Conformity to all other State statutes and County ordinances including the Zoning Ordinance. 

Street names. Names of all proposed streets will be supplied by the County Manager of Arlington 

  
 
  
 
 
County, Virginia, or his designee. 
 
Filing; term of validity of approval. One (1) copy of the approved preliminary plat will be kept on 
 
file for public examination and one (1) will be returned to the submitter. Such approval of the preliminary plat shall 
be valid for a period of six (6) months. 
 
Notification.  The  subdivider  shall  notify  all  persons  owning  property  abutting  or  immediately 
 
across  the  street  from  the  parcel  to  be  subdivided,  and  the  local  Civic  Association  President  and  Neighborhood 
Conservation Advisory Committee representatives that are on file with the County Board Office of the subdivision 
plan.  If  a  County  designated  historic  district  or  landmark  is  situated  on,  abuts  or  is  immediately  across  the  street 
from the parcel to be subdivided, then the subdivider shall also notify the Historical Affairs and Landmark Review 
Board Chairman. The notice shall be sent by mail certified return receipt to the owners of record, as indicated by the 
County tax records, for each of the properties. The notices must use the form prescribed by the County.  
 

F.  

Preliminary plat applications will not be approved until the subdivider submits proof that notices have been 

B.  

A.  

Voidance  of  approval.  Any  additions,  subtractions  or  alterations  of  any  kind  to  a  final  plat, 

sent to all the specified persons.  
(4-1-59; 6-26-76; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 
 
§ 23-9. Final Plats. 
 
Prints;  approval  by  County  Manager.  Within  six  (6)  months  of  the  date  of  approval  of  the 
 
preliminary plat, two (2) blackline prints of the final plat, together with the inked tracing, shall be submitted to the 
County Manager for approval. One (1) print, after approval by the County Manager, will be returned to the submitter 
for recordation. Such approval shall be void unless the plat is offered for recordation within three (3) months of the 
date of approval. 
 
 
following approval, shall cancel and void such approval. 
 
Scale and dimensions. The plat shall be made to a scale large enough to show details clearly; said 
 
scale shall never be smaller than fifty (50) feet to the inch. The minimum working area shall be eleven (11) inches 
by eight (8) inches, with a one-half (1/2) inch border, on any plat, these dimensions being the size of one (1) match 
section. Larger plats may have as many as four (4) match sections. In no case should the plat be drawn on a sheet of 
paper larger than eighteen (18) by twenty-four (24) inches. 
 
 
conformity with the approved preliminary plat and shall show: 
 
  
 
  

Conformity  with  approved  preliminary  plat;  contents.  The  final  plat  shall  be  checked  for 

The boundaries of the property, and names and widths of all proposed streets and easements. 

The  exact  length  and  bearing  of  the  centerlines  of  all  streets  between  intersecting  streets  and 
between intersecting streets and the exterior boundary of the plat. 

D.  

C.  

1. 

2. 

 
  
 
  
 
  

3. 

4. 

5. 

Widths, names and centerlines of all abutting streets, and widths of abutting alleys. 

All lot areas and symbols for all lots and blocks. 

All  dimensions,  both  linear  and  angular,  for  locating  boundaries  of  subdivisions,  lots,  streets, 
public easements and private easements. The linear dimensions shall be expressed by bearings and 
distances.  All  curves  shall  be  circular  arcs  and  shall  be  defined  by  the  radius,  central  angle, 
tangent,  arc  chord  bearing,  and  chord  distance.  All  plats  shall  show  a  curve  table  in  which  all 

Code Updated May 2020 

23-11 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

curve data is set forth in an orderly fashion. 

The description and the location of all monuments shall be shown. All dimensions, both linear and 
angular,  are  to  be  determined  by  an  accurate  control  survey  in the  field  which must  balance  and 
close within a limit of one (1) in ten thousand (10,000). No plat showing minus or plus distance 
will  be  approved.  The  County  Manager  may  make  such  office  and  field  checks  as  may  be 
necessary to assure the correctness of the plat and may require the owner of the subdivision to pay 
for such checking. 

The  title  which  shall  not  duplicate  the  name  of  any  existing  subdivision  under  which  the 
subdivision is to be recorded, with the name of the surveyor platting the tract. The surveyor shall 
in  every  case  have  a  certificate  from  the  Virginia  State  Board  for  the  Examination  and 
Certification of Professional Engineers, Architects and Surveyors. 

The title block, the surveyor's certificate and the curve data table shall never be broken by a match 
line. Each shall be contained wholly within one (1) match section. 

Date, north arrows within each match section in which drawing is shown, points, match lines, and 
scale. 

A blank space, three (3) inches in width and six (6) inches in length, in which the final stamp may 
be placed. 

Certification by the professional surveyor that the final plat was made by him or her and that all 
supporting  data  is  correct,  all  locations  shown  are  accurate  and  all  monuments  indicated  are 
existing,  or  will  be  placed  at  the  time  the  plat  is  recorded  or  prior  to  the  time  the  streets  are 
accepted. 

All  new  subdivisions  shall  show  an  area  tabulation  chart  in  which  the  areas  of  all  lots,  streets, 
parcels and total area are given in both square feet and acres. 

Real property assessment identification numbers, obtained from the Arlington County Real Estate 
Assessments Department, must be indicated for all lots newly created on the final plat, as well as 
those lots which previously had identification numbers. 

The  location  of  the  control measures  and  facilities  as required  by  the  Arlington  County  Erosion 
Control and Sediment Control Ordinance. 

E.  

Plans and profiles: 

1. 

2. 

Plans and profiles to a scale of twenty-five (25) feet horizontal and five (5) feet vertical to the inch 
will  be  required  of  streets  and  shall  be  shown  on  a  sheet  twenty-four  (24)  inches  in  length  and 
thirty-six (36) inches in width. 

All physical public improvements required by this chapter shall have been installed and approved 
for conformance with the plans and specifications of the County of Arlington, such plans having 
been submitted and approved prior to the commencement of construction; except, in lieu of actual 
installation of such physical public improvements, the subdivider may submit with the final plat an 
agreement to construct such physical public improvements in form and substance as approved by 
the County, together with bond or other equally secure guarantee acceptable to the  County in the 
amount  of  the  County  approved  estimated  cost  of  the  physical  public  improvements.  Such 
agreement and bond shall provide for completion of all work within a specified time as determined 
by the County Manager. In no instance shall the agreement extend more than two (2) years. Upon 
written application by the subdivider, the County Manager may extend the agreement period with 
adequate  surety.  In  any  case  where  the  County  Manager  rejects  such  agreement  or  extension  of 
agreement, bond or surety, the subdivider shall have the right to have such determination made by 

Code Updated May 2020 

23-12 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

the County Board of Arlington County. 

F.  

G.  

 
Stormwater detention. When a subdivision is in an area where stormwater detention is required by 
 
County ordinance, an engineering design plan for stormwater detention on the lots or a County granted waiver must 
be  presented  prior  to  the  final  plat.  The  plan  must  meet  the  requirements  specified  in  the  Arlington  County 
Stormwater Detention Ordinance. 
 
Other  plats.  Final  plat  requirements  for  plats  submitted  to  the  County  Manager  showing  public 
 
easements, property surveys, dedications and vacations, etc., will be treated in the same manner as subdivision plats. 
Two (2) blackline prints will be required as final copies.  
(4-1-59; 7-5-60; 7-13-64; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 
 
§ 23-10. Platting of Condominiums and Cooperatives. 
 
 
Virginia, as amended.  
 
 
Plats  for  condominiums  and  cooperatives  must  meet  all  other  requirements  for  preliminary  and 
final plats that have previously been specified in this  chapter, to the extent consistent with Title 55 of the Code of 
Virginia, as amended.  
(Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 
 
§ 23-11. Plat Review and Bond Administration Fees. 
 
 
be borne by the subdivider or developer at the charges set out below. 
 
  
 

Plats  and  plans  of  condominiums  and  cooperatives  must  conform  to  §  55-79.58  of  the  Code  of 

The cost to review plats and plans, including review, approval and administration of bonds, shall 

Subdivision plats:  

A.  

A.  

B.  

1. 

Plat review fees:  
 

Base fee . . . . . $1,825.00 
 
Plus, per lot/division of land . . . . . $244.00 
 

Plat revisions:  
 

Filing fee--As percentage of initially submitted plat review fee (base fee plus per lot fee)  
. . . . 25%  
 
Preliminary plat reapproval . . . . .  $610.00 
 
Final plat reapproval . . . . . $276.00 
 

  
 

  
 

2. 

Condominium plats:  

Plat review fee . . . . . $1,460.00 
 
Plat revisions. . . . . . $364.00 
 
Final condominium plat reapproval . . . . . $276.00 
 
Public easement, vacation and abandonment plats:  

3. 

Plat review fee . . . . . $364.00  
 

Code Updated May 2020 

23-13 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                        

 

    SUBDIVISIONS                                                                                                         

Final plat reapproval . . . . . $67.00 
 
Bond and agreement processing fees for subdivisions, site plans, or use permits:  

  
 

4. 

Bond estimate review fee for bonds of $10,000 or less, each . . . . . $123.00 
 
Bond estimate review fee for bonds over $10,000, each . . . . . $487.00 
 
Processing fee for bonds of $10,000 or less, each . . . . . $440.00  
 
Processing fee for bonds over $10,000, each . . . . $1,825.00  
 
Agreement extensions, each . . . . . $733.00  
 
Bond reductions, each . . . . . $1,270.00  
 
Bond exchanges or replacements, each . . . . . $610.00 
 
Combined bond reduction and agreement extension, each . . . . . $1,825.00 
 
 
Plat review fees shall be paid at the time the plat is submitted. Plat  revision fees shall be paid at 
the time the revised plat is submitted. Bond and agreement processing fees shall be paid at the time that bonds and 
agreements are submitted. Bond agreement extension, bond reduction, and combined bond reduction and agreement 
extension fees shall be paid at the time each request is submitted.  
 
(Ord. No. 90-5, 7-1-90; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90; Ord. No. 98-14, 7-1-98; Ord. No. 02-08, § 2, 4-20-02; Ord. No. 
04-11, § 2, 4-24-04; Ord. No. 04-25, 10-2-04; Ord. No. 09-17, 6-16-09, effective 7-1-09; Ord. No. 13-02, 4-20-13, 
effective 7-1-13; Ord. No. 20-06, 4-30-2020, effective 7-1-2020) 
 
§ 23-12. Compliance with Chapter Prerequisite to  Issuance of Permit for  Construction of Building or Other 
Improvement.  
 

B.  

No  permit  will  be  issued  by  any  administrative  officer  of  the  County  of  Arlington,  Virginia,  for  the 
construction  of  any  building  or  other  improvement  requiring  a  permit,  upon  any  land  concerning  which  a  plat  is 
required by this chapter unless and until the requirements of this chapter have been complied with.  
(4-1-59; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 
 
§ 23-13. Penalty for Violation of Chapter.  
 

Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a 
fine  of  not  less  than  twenty  dollars  ($20.00)  and  not  more  than  five  hundred  dollars  ($500.00).  Each  day  of 
continuing nonconformance shall constitute a separate violation.  
(4-1-59; Ord. No. 90-5, 7-1-90; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 
 
§ 23-14. Separability.  
 

If any clause, sentence, paragraph, or part of this  chapter should for any reason be adjudged by a court of 
competent  jurisdiction  to  be  invalid,  such  judgment  shall  not  affect,  impair  or  invalidate  the  remainder  of  this 
chapter,  but  shall  be  confined  in  its  operation  to  the  clause,  sentence,  paragraph,  or  part  directly  involved  in  its 
controversy in which the judgment shall have been rendered.  
(4-1-59; Ord. No. 90-5, 7-1-90; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 
 
§ 23-15. Enforcement.  
 

This chapter shall be enforced by the County Manager of Arlington County, Virginia, or his designee.  

(4-1-59; Ord. No. 90-5, 7-1-90; Ord. No. 90-13, 6-28-90) 

Code Updated May 2020 

23-14 

