  

 

 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

Chapter 31 

 

HUMAN RIGHTS 

§ 31-1. Statement of Policy. 
§ 31-2. Definitions. 
§ 31-3. Prohibited Acts. 
§ 31-4. Human Rights Commission Created; Composition; Terms; Chairman; 
Compensation. 
§ 31-5. Human Rights Director. 
§ 31-6. Functions and Powers of the Commission. 
§ 31-7. Enforcement Proceedings Initiated by the Filing of a Complaint. 
§ 31-8. Enforcement by the Court. 
§ 31-9. Exemptions. 
§ 31-10. Enforcement by County Agencies. 
§ 31-11. Inspections, Records and Notices. 
§ 31-12. Savings Provisions and Nonabatement of Matters. 
§ 31-13. Nonexclusive Remedy. 
§ 31-14. Notices; Service. 
§ 31-15. Time Limitations. 
§ 31-16. Severability. 

 
 
§ 31-1. Statement of Policy.  
 

Arlington County is a community richly diverse and valued for the heterogeneity of its residents. It is in the 
public  interest  of  the  County to  assure  that  each  citizen  is treated  fairly, provided  equal protection of  the  law  and 
equal opportunity to participate in the benefits, rights and privileges of community life. Discrimination deprives the 
citizenry of the bare essentials of life and is detrimental to the public welfare, safety and health of the community. 
This  chapter  is  an  expression  of  the  commitment  and  support  at  the  local  level  to  continue  working  towards  the 
improvement  of  the  quality  of  life  in  the  County.  This  chapter  is  established  to  ensure  the  protection  and 
enforcement of human and civil rights for all people living or working in Arlington County by the elimination of and 
provision of remedies for discriminatory practices. The provisions of this chapter shall be construed liberally for the 
accomplishment of the policies herein.  
(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89) 
 
§ 31-2. Definitions.  
 

The  following  words  and  terms,  when  used  in  this  chapter,  shall  have  the following meanings  unless  the 

context clearly indicates otherwise: 

 
“Arlington County workforce” means employees of Arlington County government. 

 
 
 
“Bona  fide  occupational  qualification”  means  a  bona  fide  occupational  qualification  as  defined  and 
interpreted under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 United States Code § 2000e et seq., or other applicable federal 
statute. 
 
 
“Commercial  real  estate”  means  any  land  or  improvements,  or  both,  or  interest  in  such  land  or 
improvements,  that  is  offered  for  sale  or  lease  and  that  can  be  used  for  business,  trade,  or  professional  purposes 
under existing law or by changes in law contemplated under the offering, and which is not a dwelling. The fact that 
some adaptation of land or improvements, or both, must be made after the sale or lease is completed or that licenses 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-1 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

“County” means the County of Arlington, Virginia. 

“County Board” means the County Board of Arlington County, Virginia. 

“Commission” means the Arlington Human Rights Commission, as established herein. 

“Director” means the executive director of the Arlington County Human Rights Commission. 

“Complainant” means any person who files a complaint with the Commission, alleging that a violation of 

“County  Attorney”  means  the  Arlington  County  Attorney  or  other  legal  representative  appointed  by  the 

“Complaint” means any written allegation sufficient to indicate that a named respondent has committed a 

or  approvals  are  necessary  to  put  it  into  use  shall  not  mean  that  the  land  or  improvements  cannot  be  used  for 
business, trade, or professional purposes, so long as those adaptations, licenses, and approvals are within the range 
that persons engaged in a business, trade, or profession are able to foresee in buying or leasing such property. 
 
 
 
 
this chapter has been committed against such person. 
 
 
violation of this chapter. 
 
 
 
 
County Board to serve as legal counsel for the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Discrimination  based  on  sex”  includes  but  shall  not  be  limited  to,  sexual  harassment,  discrimination 
because of or on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, and women affected by pregnancy, 
childbirth  or  related  medical  conditions  shall  be  treated  the  same  for  all  employment  related  purposes,  including 
fringe benefit programs, as other persons not affected by pregnancy but similar in their ability or inability to work, 
and nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to permit otherwise. This chapter shall not require an employer to pay 
for the health insurance benefits for abortion, except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus 
were carried to term, or except where medical complications have arisen from an abortion; provided, that nothing 
herein  shall  preclude  an  employer  from  providing  abortion  benefits  or  otherwise  affect  bargaining  agreements  in 
regard to abortion. 
 
 
“Dwelling”  means  any  building,  structure,  or  portion  thereof,  that  is occupied  or  is  intended,  arranged or 
designed to be used or occupied as the home, residence or sleeping place of one (1) or more persons or families, and 
any vacant land that is offered for sale or lease for the construction of such building or structure and includes any 
interest in a dwelling as so defined. 
 
 
“Educational  institution”  means  any  nursery,  kindergarten,  elementary  or  secondary  school,  academy, 
college,  university,  extension  course  or  nursing,  secretarial,  business,  vocational,  technical,  trade  or  professional 
school, or joint apprenticeship program. The term "educational institution" shall not include public schools, colleges 
or universities. 
 
 
“Employer” means any person who, within the County, employs for wages, salaries or on commission four 
(4) or more persons who are not related to the employer (if an individual) or to any partner or majority shareholder 
of the employer (if a partnership or a corporation) and who are not employed in domestic service in the employer's 
personal residence. Employer shall not mean the United States, federal agencies, political subdivisions of the United 
States,  United  States  instrumentalities,  the  United  States  Postal  Service,  or  similar  organizations  or  entities,  the 
Commonwealth of Virginia or its agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions. 
 
 
County for potential employees or refer persons for potential employment in the County. 
 
 
Director of the Human Rights Commission, or the Executive Director's designee. 
 
 

“Executive  Director”  means  the  person  appointed  by  the  County  Manager  to  the  position  of  Executive 

“Employment  agency”  means  all  persons  who,  with  or  without  compensation,  undertake  to  solicit  in  the 

“Familial status” means one (1) or more individuals who have not attained the age of eighteen (18) years 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-2 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

“Family” means a group living together as a unit and includes an individual. 

being domiciled with (i) a parent or another person having legal custody of such individual or individuals, or (ii) the 
designee  of  such  parent  or  another  person  having  custody,  with  the  written  permission  of  such  parent  or  other 
person.  The  term  "familial  status"  also  includes  any  person  who  is  pregnant  or  is  in  the  process  of  securing  legal 
custody of any individual who has not attained the age of eighteen (18) years. 
 
 
 
 
“Gender identity” means the gender-related identity, appearance, or other gender related characteristics of 
an individual (including but not limited to transgender status, gender fluidity and gender expression), without regard 
to the individual’s designated sex at birth or as further defined by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia or the 
United States. 
 
 
 
 
 
  

“Handicap” means any condition or characteristic that renders a person a handicapped person. 

“Handicapped person” means any person who: 

(1) 

Has  a  physical  or  mental  impairment  which  substantially  limits  one  (1)  or  more  major  life 
activities  or  has  a  record  of  such  impairment,  and  which  is  unrelated  to  a  person's  ability  to 
perform the duties of a particular job or position or is unrelated to the individual's qualification for 
employment or promotion or is unrelated to a person's ability to utilize or benefit from a service or 
program provided by an educational institution or place of public accommodation, or is unrelated 
to a person's ability to acquire, rent, or maintain property; or 

 

(2) 

Is regarded as having such a physical or mental impairment. 

“Housing” means the same thing as dwelling. 

 
 
 
 
“Labor organization” means any association organized for mutual benefit and operating as a labor union, 
association, committee or organization for the purpose of collective bargaining and other lawful functions of labor 
unions, or any employee representation committee, any of whose members are employed in the  County whether or 
not  having  a  duly  authorized  charter  as  a  local  labor  union  from  either  a  state  or  national  labor  organization,  and 
whether or not registered with the State Department of Labor. 
 
 
“Lending  institution”  means  any  bank,  insurance  company,  savings  and  loan  association,  credit  union, 
finance  company  or  any  other  person  regularly  engaged  in  the  business  of  lending  money,  guaranteeing  loans,  or 
furnishing consumer credit or other credit-related services; any person who regularly extends, renews or continues 
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the decision to extend, renew or continue credit; or 
any person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal or continuation of credit. 
 
 
tasks, walking, seeing hearing, speaking, breathing, learning or working. 
 
 
“Marital status” means the status of being married, divorced, single or widowed. The term "marital status" 
also includes any person whose marriage has been dissolved through annulment, and any person seeking a divorce 
or an annulment. 
 
 
 
  

“Major life activities” means functions such as, but not limited to, caring for one's self, performing manual 

A  disability  attributable  to  mental  retardation,  autism,  or  any  other  neurologically  handicapping 
condition closely related to mental retardation and requiring treatment similar to that required by 
mentally retarded individuals; or 

“Mental impairment” means: 

(1) 

 
  

(2) 

An organic or mental impairment that has substantial adverse effects on an individual's cognitive 
or  volitional  functions,  including  central  nervous  system  disorders  or  significant  discrepancies 
among mental functions of an individual.  

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-3 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

 

For the purposes of this chapter, the term "mental impairment" does not include active alcoholism 
or current drug addiction and does not include any mental impairment, disease or defect that has 
been successfully asserted by an individual as a defense to any criminal charge. 
 

“Party” means any complainant or respondent. 

 
“Notice of investigation” means any formal statement issued by the Commission, on a form to be prepared 
by the commission, alleging that any person has committed a violation of this chapter and initiating an investigation 
of such alleged violation. 
 
 
 
 
“Person” means any individual or individuals, partnership, association, organization, company, corporation, 
joint-stock company, labor union, mutual company, trustee in bankruptcy, receiver or other fiduciary, or the agent, 
legal representative or employee thereof. For purposes of § 31-3.A, the term person shall include any owner, lessor, 
assignor, builder, manager, broker, salesman, agent, employee or lending institution. 
 
 
“Person in the business of selling or renting dwellings” means any person who, within the preceding twelve 
(12) months, has participated as principal, real estate broker, real estate sales person or agent in  three (3) or more 
transactions  involving  the  sale,  lease  or  rental  of  housing  or  who  owns  any  dwelling  designed  or  intended  for 
occupancy by or occupied by five (5) or more families. 
 
 
“Physical  impairment”  means  any  physical  condition,  anatomic  loss,  or  cosmetic  disfigurement  which  is 
caused by bodily injury, birth defect, or illness. "Physical impairment" does not include active alcoholism or current 
drug use. 
 
 
“Public  accommodation”  means  and  includes  every  business,  professional  or  commercial  enterprise, 
hospital  or  nursing  home, place  of  lodging, refreshment,  entertainment,  sports,  recreation  or  transportation facility 
located  in  the  County,  whether  licensed  or  not,  public  or  private,  or  transportation  facility  located  in  the  County, 
whether  licensed  or  not,  public  or  private,  whose  goods,  services,  facilities,  privileges,  advantages  or 
accommodations  are  extended,  offered,  sold  or  otherwise  made  available  in  any  manner  to  the  public.  "Public 
accommodation" does not include a bona fide private club or other establishment not in fact open to the public. 
 
 
 

“Qualified handicapped person” means: 

(1) 

(1) 

 
  

With  respect  to  employment,  a  handicapped  person  who,  with  reasonable  accommodation  as  set 
out in Virginia Code  § 51.5-41 or its successor, can perform the essential functions of the job in 
question. 

With respect to other goods, public accommodations, housing or services, means any handicapped 
person who meets the essential nondiscriminatory eligibility requirements for the receipt of such 
goods or services. 

“Real estate broker” means a person doing business in the County of Arlington who is the holder of a real 

“Real estate sales person” means a person doing business in the County of Arlington who is the holder of a 

 
 
estate broker's license issued pursuant to applicable laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. 
 
 
real estate license issued pursuant to applicable laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. 
 
 
housing. 
 
 
“Religious  organization”  means  any  bona  fide  organization,  association  or  society  organized  or  operated 
for exclusively religious, purposes or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled by 
or  in  conjunction  with  a  religious  organization,  association  or  society,  unless  membership  in  such  organization, 
association  or  society  is  restricted  on  account  of  race,  color,  national  origin,  sex,  sexual  orientation  or  gender 

“Real estate transaction” means any sale, exchange, rental, lease, assignment, sublease, or other transfer of 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-4 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

“To rent” means to lease, to sublease, to let or otherwise in any way to grant for a consideration the right to 

“Respondent”  means  any  person  alleged  in  any  complaint  filed  with  the  Commission,  or  any  notice  of 

identity. 
 
 
occupy premises not owned by the occupant. 
 
 
investigation issued by the Commission, to have violated this chapter. 
 
 
“Restrictive  covenant”  means  any  specification  purporting  to  restrict  or  affect  the  holding,  occupancy, 
ownership, rental, lease or transfer of any interest in land or housing on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual 
orientation, gender identity, national origin or handicap. 
 
 
as defined by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia or the United States.  
 
(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 91-25, 6-22-91; Ord. No. 92-51, 11-14-92; Ord. No 12-02, 
2-11-12’ Ord. No 20-13, 7-21-20) 
 
§ 31-3. Prohibited Acts. 
 
 
 
  
 
  

“Sexual orientation” means a person’s actual or perceived heterosexuality, bisexuality, or homosexuality or 

Except as otherwise provided, it shall be an unlawful housing practice: 

Housing: 

A.  

1. 

a. 

To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to refuse to negotiate for 
the sale or rental of, or otherwise to make unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any person 
because of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, elderliness, marital status, familial status, 
religion, handicap or national origin. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

f. 

To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or privileges of sale or rental 
of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or facilities in connection therewith, because 
of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, elderliness, marital status, familial 
status, religion, handicap or national origin. 

To  make,  print,  or  publish,  or  cause  to  be  made,  printed  or  published,  any  notice, 
statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a dwelling that indicates 
any preference, limitation or discrimination based on race, color, sex,  sexual orientation, 
gender  identity,  elderliness, marital  status,  familial  status,  religion,  handicap or  national 
origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination. 

To represent to any person because of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, 
elderliness,  marital  status,  familial  status,  religion,  handicap  or  national  origin  that  any 
dwelling  is  not  available  for  inspection,  sale  or  rental  when  such  dwelling  is  in  fact  so 
available. 

To  interfere  with,  interrupt  or  terminate  any  person's  ownership,  rental,  possession  or 
occupancy of a dwelling because of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, 
elderliness, marital status, familial status, religion, handicap or national origin. 

To  include  in  the  terms  or  conditions  of  any  sale,  rental  or  other  transfer  of  a  dwelling 
any  provision  that  purports  to  forbid  or  discourages,  or  attempts  to  discourage,  the 
ownership, rental, possession, occupancy or use of such dwelling by persons because of 
their  race,  color,  sex,  sexual  orientation,  gender  identity,  elderliness,  marital  status, 
familial status, religion, handicap or national origin. 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-5 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 

  

 
  

 

g. 

h. 

To engage in economic reprisal or otherwise retaliate or to cause or coerce or attempt to 
cause  or  coerce  another  person  to  engage  in  economic  reprisal  or  otherwise  retaliate 
against any person because such person has opposed an unlawful housing practice or has 
filed  a  complaint,  testified,  assisted  or  participated  in  any  manner  in  any  investigation, 
proceeding or hearing under this chapter. 

To discriminate in lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise 
making  available  money  for  the  purchase,  acquisition,  construction,  alteration,  repair  or 
maintenance  of  any  housing  or  to  discriminate  in  the  fixing  of  the  rates,  terms  or 
conditions  of  any  such  financing  or  in  the  extension  of  service  in  connection  therewith 
because of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, elderliness, marital status, 
familial status, religion, handicap or national origin. 

2. 

Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services: 

a. 

It shall be an unlawful housing practice to deny to any person access to or membership or 
participation  in  any  multiple  listing  service,  real  estate  brokers'  organization  or  other 
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings or 
to discriminate against any person in the terms or conditions of such access, membership 
or  participation  on  account  of  race,  color,  sex,  sexual  orientation,  gender  identity, 
elderliness, marital status, familial status, religion, handicap or national origin. 

b. 

It shall be an unlawful housing practice for any real estate broker, real estate salesman or 
other person in the business of selling or renting dwellings: 

(1) 

To  solicit  or  discourage  the  sale,  rental  or  other  transfer  of  a  dwelling  by 
representations  regarding  the  existing  or  potential  proximity  of  real  property 
owned,  used  or  occupied  by  a  person  or  persons  of  any  particular  race,  color, 
sex,  sexual  orientation,  gender  identity,  elderliness,  marital  status,  familial 
status, religion, handicap or national origin. 

(2) 

To display a sign or any other device representing that a dwelling is available for 
inspection, sale, rental or other transfer when in fact it is not so available. 

c. 

Every  real  estate  broker  and  every  other  person  in  the  business  of  selling  or  renting 
dwellings  shall  post  in  a  conspicuous  location  in  that  portion  of  his  housing  business 
normally used by him for negotiating the sale or rental of dwellings a notice that contains 
the following or substantially similar language as may be approved by the Human Rights 
Commission, clearly visible in not less than fourteen (14) point type:  

"IT IS A VIOLATION OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY 
OF ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA, TO: 
 
(1) 

Deny  housing  accommodations  to  any  person  because  of  his  race,  color,  sex, 
sexual  orientation,  gender  identity,  elderliness,  marital  status,  familial  status, 
religion, handicap or national origin. 

(2) 

Discriminate  against  any  person  because  of  his  race,  color,  sex,  sexual 
orientation,  gender  identity,  elderliness,  marital  status,  familial  status,  religion, 
handicap or national origin with respect to the terms, conditions or privileges of 
housing  accommodations  or  in  the  furnishing  of  facilities  or  services  in 
connection therewith."  

It shall be an unlawful housing practice to fail to post such a sign. 
 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-6 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

  
 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

 

  
 
  

 
  

 
  

3. 

Restrictive covenants: 

a. 

b. 

Any restrictive covenant purporting to restrict occupancy or ownership of property on the 
basis  of  race,  color,  sex,  sexual  orientation,  gender  identity,  elderliness,  marital  status, 
familial  status,  religion,  handicap  or  national  origin  included  in  an  instrument  affecting 
the  title  to  real  or  leasehold  property  is  null,  void  and  of  no  effect,  and  contrary  to  the 
public policy of Arlington County. 

Any  person  who  delivers  a  deed,  mortgage,  deed  of  trust  or  other  instrument  affecting 
title to any interest in land to the grantee of such interest shall attach to said instrument a 
statement advising the grantee of the provisions of paragraph a of this subsection. 

c. 

After July 1, 1974, the Clerk of the Arlington County Circuit Court shall: 

(1) 

Not comply with any request to copy any deed, mortgage, deed of trust or other 
instrument  affecting  title  to  or  any  interest  in  land,  or  declaration  of  covenants 
filed or recorded in the  Clerk's office, unless the clerk imprints on or affixes to 
such  copy  a  clear  and  conspicuous  statement  that  any  provision  therein  which 
purports to restrict or affect, on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, 
gender  identity, elderliness, marital status, familial status, religion, handicap or 
national  origin,  the  holding,  occupancy  or  transfer  of  any  interest  in  land  is 
invalid and unenforceable. 

(2) 

Post  in  a  conspicuous  location  in  the  Clerk's  office  a  notice  that  contains  the 
following  language,  printed  in  black  on  a  light-colored background,  in  not  less 
than fourteen (14) point type:  

"It  is  a  violation  of  the  Human  Rights  Ordinance  of  the  County  of  Arlington, 
Virginia,  for  any  person  to  include  any  provision  in  a  deed,  mortgage,  deed  of 
trust, or other instrument affecting title to or any interest in land which purports 
to  restrict  or  affect  on  the  basis  of  race,  color,  sex,  sexual  orientation,  gender 
identity, elderliness, marital status, familial status, religion, handicap or national 
origin, the holding, occupancy, or transfer of any interest in land, and any such 
provisions are invalid and unenforceable."  
 
This  language  shall  also  be  imprinted  or  affixed  to  every  liber  volume  in  the 
custody of the Clerk of the Court. 
 

d. 

Nothing in § 31-3.A.1, other than subsection c, shall apply to: 

(1) 

(2) 

Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or intended to 
be  occupied  by  no  more  than  four  (4)  families  living  independently  of  each 
other,  if  the  owner  actually  maintains  and  occupies  one  (1)  of  such  living 
quarters as his residence. 

A  religious  organization,  association  or  society,  or  any  nonprofit  institution  or 
organization  operated,  supervised  or  controlled  by  or  in  conjunction  with  a 
religious  organization,  association  or  society,  in  connection  with  the  sale  or 
rental  to,  or  occupancy  by,  persons  of  the  same  religion  of  dwellings  which  it 
owns  or  operates  for  other  than  a  commercial  purpose,  unless  membership  in 
such  religion  is  restricted  on  account  of  race,  color,  sex,  sexual  orientation, 
gender identity, elderliness, handicap, familial status or national origin. 

(3) 

A private club not in fact open to the public which, as an incident to its primary 
purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-7 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  
 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  
 
  

a  commercial  purpose  in  connection  with  the  rental  to  or  occupancy  of  such 
lodgings by its members. 

(4) 

Any  educational  institution,  religious  or  correctional  institution  which  requires 
that persons of both sexes not occupy any single dwelling or room therein which 
it owns or operates. 

e. 

Nothing  in  this  chapter  shall  be  construed  to  affect  those  provisions  of  the  zoning  or 
housing standards ordinances which limit the number of unrelated individuals who may 
occupy  a  dwelling  unit.  Nothing  in  this  chapter  shall  be  construed  to  impose  stricter 
requirements  on  any  person  than  are  set  out  in  Code  of  Virginia  §  51.5-45,  or  its 
successor, or to impose stricter requirements than are set out in applicable building codes. 

B.  

Employment: 

1. 

It shall be unlawful for any employer, on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, 
gender identity, marital status, national origin, handicap or age: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

To refuse to hire an individual for employment. 

To discharge or otherwise discipline an employee. 

To  deny  an  employee  any  opportunity  with  respect  to  hiring,  promotion,  tenure, 
apprenticeship,  compensation,  terms,  upgrading,  training  programs,  or  other  conditions, 
benefits or privileges of employment. 

To  prevent  an  individual  from  taking  a  competitive  examination  or  otherwise  deny  any 
benefits pertaining to the grading or processing of applications with respect to any aspect 
of employment. 

2. 

It shall be unlawful for any employment agency, on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual 
orientation, gender identity, marital status, national origin, handicap or age: 

a. 

b. 

To refuse or fail to accept, register, properly classify, refer for employment or otherwise 
discriminate  against  any  person,  unless  such  discrimination  is  justified  by  a  bona  fide 
occupational qualification, 

To  comply  with  any  request  by  an  employer  for  a  referral  of  applicants  if  the  request 
indicates,  directly  or  indirectly,  that  the  employer  desires  any  illegal  discriminatory 
limitation of applicants. 

3. 

It  shall  be  unlawful  for  a  labor  organization,  on  the  basis  of  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  sexual 
orientation, gender identity, marital status, national origin, handicap or age: 

a. 

b. 

To deny full and equal rights to membership to an applicant for membership. 

To deny a member or an applicant an opportunity with respect to hiring, seniority, tenure, 
referral,  apprenticeship,  compensation,  terms,  upgrading,  training  programs,  or  other 
conditions or privileges of membership or employment. 

c. 

To expel a member from membership. 

4. 

It  shall  be  unlawful  for  any  employer,  labor  organization,  employment  agency,  or  joint  labor 
management  committee  controlling  apprenticeship  or  other  training  programs  to  circulate  or 
publish any notice or advertisement related to employment or membership in a labor organization 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-8 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

which indicates, directly or indirectly, any preference, limitation, specifications or discrimination 
based  upon  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  sexual  orientation,  gender  identity,  marital  status,  national 
origin, handicap or age. 

It shall be unlawful for any member of a joint labor-industry apprenticeship committee or board to 
discriminate  on  the basis  of race,  color,  religion,  sex,  sexual  orientation,  gender  identity,  marital 
status, national origin, handicap or age. 

It is not an unlawful act for an employer to observe the terms of a bona fide seniority system or 
any bona fide employee benefit plan such as a retirement, pension, or insurance plan, which is not 
a subterfuge to evade the purposes of this chapter, except that no such employee benefit plan shall 
excuse  the  failure  to  hire  any  individual,  and no  such  seniority  system  or  employee benefit  plan 
shall  require  or  permit  the  involuntary  retirement  of  any  individual  because  of  the  age  of  such 
individual. 

With  respect  to  actions on  the  basis  of handicap,  this  section  applies  only  to otherwise qualified 
handicapped persons. 

With respect to actions on the basis of age, this section applies only to persons at least forty (40) 
years of age. 

For violations of § 31-3.B of this chapter on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, marital status or 
national origin, a court may award such relief as a court could award under Section 706(g) of the 
Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended. For violations of § 31-3.B on the basis of age, a court may 
award  such  relief  as  a  court  could  award  under  §  7(b)  of  the  federal  Age  Discrimination  in 
Employment  Act,  except  that  liquidated  damages  and  attorney's  fees  shall  not  be  allowed.  For 
violations of § 31-3.B of this chapter on the basis of handicap, a court may award such relief as a 
court  could  award  under  applicable  State  law.  For  violations  of  §  31-3.B  of  this  chapter  on  the 
basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, a court may award such relief as if sexual orientation 
and/or gender identity were a protected category under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended. 

C.  

Public accommodations: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

It shall be unlawful for any person or public accommodation to discriminate against any person, 
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, national 
origin,  age  or  handicap,  with respect  to  the  access,  use,  benefit  or  enjoyment  of  goods, services, 
facilities, privileges or any other advantages of any public accommodation, or to make or publish 
any statement evidencing an intent to do so. 

Nothing herein shall be construed to limit, restrict, or expand the rights of handicapped persons as 
established by applicable state or federal law. 

Nothing  in  this  section  shall  be  construed  to  override,  restrict  or  limit  any  laws  relating  to  the 
dispensing of alcoholic beverages. 

Nothing in this section shall be construed to make unlawful any program, service or benefit of any 
type, established and intended for the benefit of elderly or handicapped persons or minors. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

D.  

 
Credit:  It  shall  be  unlawful  for  any  lending  institution,  on  the  basis  of  race,  color,  religion,  sex, 
 
sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, marital status, age (provided that the person has the capacity to 
contract) or handicap, to: 
 
  

Discriminate  against  any  person  in  the  furnishing  or  arranging  of  credit  or  other  credit-related 
services, including but not limited to the lending of money, guaranteeing of loans or accepting of 
mortgages. 

1. 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-9 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

Deny or terminate credit or credit-related services or to affect adversely a person's credit rating or 
standing. 

Nothing  herein  shall  be  construed  to  make  illegal  any  action  which  is  permitted  in  the  Virginia 
Equal  Credit  Opportunity  Act,  or  its  successor,  or  to  otherwise  restrict  the  rights  of  any  person 
under the Virginia Equal Credit Opportunity Act or its successor. 

E.  

Education: 

1. 

It shall be an unlawful act for any educational institution or its agents, employees or officers, on 
the basis of race, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or color: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

terms,  conditions, 
To  discriminate  against  any  person  with 
accommodations, advantages, facilities, benefits, privileges or services of that institution. 

respect 

the 

to 

To require, or cause to be required, that a photograph of any applicant for admission to an 
educational institution, or information regarding the race, national origin or color of such 
applicants,  be  submitted  with  any  form  of  application  for  admission,  unless  such 
information is sought solely for the purpose of: 

(1) 

Implementing  a  bona  fide  affirmative  action  program  designed  to  include 
enrollment  of  qualified  members  of  minority  racial,  national  origin  or  color 
groups; or 

(2) 

Obtaining grants or other funds from a public or private institution or agency. 

To comply with any request by a potential employer that indicates, directly or indirectly, 
that  the  employer  desires  any  unlawful  discriminatory  limitation  in  its  efforts  to  recruit 
students  on  the  educational  institution's  premises  or  in  the  employer's  use  of  placement 
facilities  for  referral  of  students  for  employment  or  in  such  employer's  participation  in 
any  job-training  or  work-study  program  operated  by  or  in  conjunction  with  the 
educational institution. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

It shall be an unlawful act under this chapter for any educational institution to discriminate against 
otherwise  qualified  handicapped  persons  in  a  manner  which  would  constitute  a  violation  of  any 
state or federal law. 

Nothing  contained  in  this  chapter  shall  be  construed  to  prohibit  any  single-sex  educational 
institution from restricting admission to persons of a single sex. 

Discrimination on the basis of sex in contact sports programs shall not fall within the purview of 
this  chapter.  For  purposes  of  this  chapter,  contact  sports  shall  include  sports  such  as  boxing, 
wrestling, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball and other sports the purpose or major activity of 
which involves bodily contact. 

F.  

 
Commercial real estate: It shall be unlawful for any person, on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual 
 
orientation,  gender  identity,  age  (provided  that  the  person  has  the  capacity  to  contract),  marital  status,  religion, 
handicap or national origin, to: 
 
  

Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to refuse to negotiate for the sale or 
rental of, or otherwise to make unavailable or deny commercial real estate to any person. 

1. 

 
  

2. 

Discriminate  against  any  person  in  the  terms,  conditions,  or  privileges  of  sale  or  rental  of 
commercial real estate, or in the provision of services or facilities in connection therewith. 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-10 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

Make,  print,  or  publish,  or  cause  to  be  made,  printed,  or  published,  any  notice,  statement,  or 
advertisement,  with  respect  to  the  sale  or  rental  of  commercial  real  estate  that  indicates  any 
preference, limitation, or discrimination. 

Represent  to  any  person  that  any  commercial  real  estate  is  not  available  for  inspection,  sale,  or 
rental when such commercial real estate is, in fact, so available. 

Interfere with, interrupt, or terminate any person's ownership, rental, possession, or occupancy of 
commercial real estate. 

Include  in  the  terms  or  conditions  of  any  sale,  rental,  or  other  transfer  of  commercial  real  estate 
any  provision  that  purports  to  forbid  or  discourages,  or  attempts  to  discourage,  the  ownership, 
rental, possession, occupancy, or use of such commercial real estate. 

Discriminate  in  lending  money,  guaranteeing  loans,  accepting  mortgages,  or  otherwise  making 
available  money  for  the  purchase,  acquisition,  construction,  alteration,  repair  or  maintenance  of 
any commercial real estate, or to discriminate in the fixing of the rates, terms, or conditions of any 
such financing or in the extension of service in connection therewith. 

G.  

Retaliation: It shall be unlawful for any person: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

To directly or indirectly cause or coerce, or attempt to cause or coerce, any person to do any act 
declared to be an unlawful act under this chapter. 

To  directly  or  indirectly  engage  in  economic  reprisal  or  intimidation  to  do,  threaten  to  do,  or 
attempt to do harm to any person or property or to otherwise retaliate against any person because 
such  person  has  opposed  any  practice  based  on  a  good  faith  belief  that  it  is  unlawful  under  this 
chapter,  or  has  complied  with  or  encouraged  others  to  comply  with  the  terms  of  this  chapter,  or 
has had a complaint filed in his or her behalf, or has filed a complaint or has testified, assisted or 
participated  in  any  manner  in  any  investigation,  proceeding  or  hearing  under  this  chapter  or 
exercised or attempted to exercise any right conferred herein. 

To directly or indirectly cause or coerce, or attempt to cause or coerce, another person to engage in 
economic reprisal or intimidation, or to harm or threaten harm to any person, or to retaliate against 
or to interfere with any person because the person has opposed any practice made unlawful by this 
chapter, or has complied or encouraged others to comply with any provision in this chapter, or has 
filed  a  complaint  or  has  testified,  assisted  or  participated  in  any  manner  in  any  investigation, 
proceeding  or  hearing  under  this  chapter,  or  has  exercised  or  attempted  to  exercise  any  right 
conferred in this chapter.  

(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-17-89; Ord. No. 91-25, 6-22-91; Ord. No. 92-51, 11-14-92) 
 
§ 31-4. Human Rights Commission Created; Composition; Terms; Chairman; Compensation.  
 

There  is  hereby  created  the  Arlington  Human  Rights  Commission,  hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 

Commission. 

 
A. 

  
The Commission shall consist of twelve (12) members, all of whom shall reside in the County of 
Arlington.  The  members  shall  be  appointed  by  the  County  Board  and  shall  be  broadly  representative  of  the 
community, to the extent practicable, with respect to race, sex, sexual orientation,  gender identity, color, ethnicity, 
age,  disabilities  and  marital  status  and  with  respect  to  areas  of  expertise  pertinent  to  the  areas  of  coverage  of  this 
chapter gained through education and/or paid, volunteer or life experience. 
 
  
Of  the  members  first  appointed,  three  (3)  shall  be  appointed  for  terms  of  one  (1)  year, three  (3) 
shall  be  appointed  for  terms  of  two  (2)  years,  and  three  (3)  shall  be  appointed  for  terms  of  three  (3)  years. 

B. 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-11 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

C. 

Thereafter, members shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years each. Any vacancy shall be filled by the County 
Board for the unexpired portion of a term. The  County Board may, in its discretion, remove members during such 
members' terms for good cause. 
 
  
The County Board shall designate one (1) member to act as chairman and shall give consideration 
each year to continuation of its previous designation of the chairman of the  Commission. Five (5) members of the 
Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction  of business. Decisions of the Commission shall be made 
by a majority of the members present and voting. 
 
 
County Board on equal employment opportunity issues in the Arlington County workforce. 
 

The  Members  of  the  Commission  shall  establish  a  standing  committee  to  provide  advice  to  the 

D. 

 
1. 

 

 
 

 
 

2. 

3. 

Composition of the standing committee. 
 
a. 

The standing committee shall be comprised of five (5), seven (7), nine (9) or eleven (11) 
members  –  a  number  to  be  determined  by  the  Human  Rights  Commission  at  the 
beginning of each calendar year. 

b. 

 
c. 

 
d. 

One  of  the  members  of  the  standing  committee  must  be  the  Vice  Chairman  of  the 
Commission. 
   
The majority of the members of the standing committee must be members of the Human 
Rights Commission. 

The  balance  of  standing  committee  membership  must  be  selected  from  the  Arlington 
County workforce. 

The  County  Manager  shall  make  all  Arlington  County  workforce  appointments  to  the  standing 
committee; such members are not required to be County residents and shall represent the general 
interests of the Arlington County workforce. 

In  order  for  the  standing  committee  to  transact  business,  a  quorum  of  the  membership  must  be 
present.  A quorum is defined as a majority of the members of the standing committee, so long as 
the majority of the quorum is constituted by Human Rights Commission members. 

E. 

 
The  County  Board  shall  designate  one  (1)  member  of  the  Commission  to  act  as  Vice  Chairman 
 
whose responsibility it is to lead the standing committee on equal employment opportunity issues in the Arlington 
County workforce. 
 
Members of the  Commission  and any standing committee  shall serve without compensation, but 
  
funds may be provided by the County Board in the annual budget for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by 
the Commission.  
(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 92-51, 11-14-92; Ord. No. 12-02, 2-11-12) 
 
§ 31-5. Human Rights Director.  
 

F. 

The  County  Manager  shall  appoint  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Commission  and  such  staff  as  may  be 

authorized.  
(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89) 
 
§ 31-6. Functions and Powers of the Commission.  
 

In addition to other powers and duties as set out in this  chapter, the Commission shall have the following 

functions and powers: 

 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-12 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

I. 

J. 

F. 

E. 

C. 

B. 

G. 

D. 

A. 

H. 

To meet and function at times it deems appropriate; 

To conciliate and attempt to resolve individual complaints of violations of this chapter; 

To make findings and recommendations upon complaints alleging violations of this chapter; 

To request the attendance of witnesses at public hearings and to take testimony at hearings under 

To  seek,  with  the  approval  of  the  County  Board,  through  appropriate  enforcement  authorities, 

To adopt rules and regulations, subject to the approval of the County Board, needed to carry out its 

In  the  event  conciliation  fails,  conduct  hearings  or  take  other  appropriate  action  concerning 

To refer, to the appropriate state or federal agency, complaints of discrimination which are within 

To receive complaints from any person alleging violations of this chapter and investigate or cause 

  
 
  
functions and purposes, including but not limited to rules governing hearings and meetings of the Commission; 
 
  
to be investigated such complaints; 
 
  
 
  
To  request  that  any  party  produce  for  examination  any  books,  records,  papers,  or  other  tangible 
and  relevant  evidence,  or  that  any  party  answer  written  or  oral  questions  relating  to  any  complaint  under 
investigation by the Commission; 
 
  
violations of this chapter; 
 
  
oath or affirmation; 
 
  
 
  
prevention of or relief from violations of this chapter; 
 
  
the jurisdiction of the state or federal agency; 
 
  
the approval of the County Board; 
 
  
affecting community life in Arlington County; 
 
  
On its own motion, to authorize investigations by the Executive Director of possible violations of 
this chapter and to attempt, through conciliation or similar means, to bring to an end any violations of this  chapter 
which may be thought to exist as a result of such investigations, and to seek, with the prior approval of the  County 
Board,  through  appropriate  enforcement  authorities,  prevention  of  or  relief  from  violations  of  this  chapter  which 
may be thought to exist as a result of such investigations; 
 
  
the approval of the County Board; 
 
  
County Board; and 
 
  
To  make,  at  least  annually,  a  written  report  of  its  activities  to  the  County  Board  under  the 
provisions of this chapter along with its recommendations concerning measures to be taken to further the purposes 
of this chapter.  
 
 
The  primary  responsibilities  of  the  Commission’s  standing  committee,  executed  with  Human 
Rights  Commission  concurrence,  on  equal  employment  opportunity  issues  shall  include,  but  not  be  limited  to  the 
following: 
 

To  make  studies  to  effectuate  the  purposes  and  policies  of  this  chapter  when  requested  by  the 

To  gather,  discuss  and  disseminate  information  about discrimination  and  human  rights  problems 

To enter into workshare or other agreements with appropriate federal or state agencies, subject to 

To accept public grants or private gifts, bequests, or other payments as appropriate and subject to 

K. 

N. 

O. 

Q. 

M 

L. 

P. 

1. 

Advise  the  County  Board  on  equal  employment  opportunity  issues  in  the  Arlington  County 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-13 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

workforce; 

Review the implementation and progress of equal employment under the provisions of the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Policy, Affirmative Action Plan and relevant statutes and legislation; 

Stimulate  community  interest  and  participation  in  the  implementation  of  equal  employment 
opportunity objectives; 

Conduct  joint  annual  reviews,  in  consultation  with  appropriate  advisory  bodies  and  staff,  on  the 
status of equal employment opportunity within County employment; 

Maintain  liaison  with  other  interested  advisory  commissions  for  the  review  of  items  of  special 
interest to equal employment objectives; 

Propose  recommendations  to  the  County  Board  to  promote  and  enhance  equal  employment 
opportunity in County employment; 

Submit an annual report to the County Board within sixty (60) days after the closing of each fiscal 
year outlining the activities of the standing committee; 

The standing committee shall meet at least two (2) times a year but not more than four (4) times a 
year on dates to be determined by the standing committee. 

 
R. 

A.  

The  creation  of  this  standing  committee  does  not  expand  the  Commission’s  authority  to 
employment issues in the Arlington County workforce as Arlington County is not an employer under the definition 
of this Chapter. 
(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 91-7, 3-16-91; Ord. No. 12-02, 2-11-12) 
 
§ 31-7. Enforcement Proceedings Initiated by the Filing of a Complaint. 
 
Complaints.  A  complaint  may  be  filed  with  the  Commission  by  any  person  alleging  that  a 
 
violation  of  this  chapter  has  been  committed  against  such  person.  In  order  for  a  complaint  to  become  formal,  the 
complaint  must  be  filed  on  a  form  supplied  by  the  Commission  and  sworn  to  or  affirmed,  except  that  a  written 
complaint not initially made on a form supplied by the Commission and sworn to or affirmed must be so formalized 
within  seven  (7)  days  of  receipt  by  the  Commission.  The  Executive  Director  shall  promptly  serve  a  copy  of  the 
formal  complaint  upon  each  respondent  named  therein.  The  complaint  shall  state  the  name  and  address  of  the 
complainant  and  the  person  or  persons  against  whom  the  complaint  is  made,  and  shall  also  state  the  facts  upon 
which the complaint is based, including the date the violation was allegedly committed and such other information 
as the Commission may require. A complaint may be withdrawn at any time by the complainant. Such withdrawal 
shall terminate all action by the Commission with respect to that complaint.  
 

 
 
  

Failure of a complainant to formalize his or her complaint within the time allowed shall result in automatic 
dismissal  of  the  complaint  unless,  for  good  cause  shown,  the  Commission  grants  an  extension  of  time  for  this 
purpose. 
 
B.  

Investigation and determinations by the Executive Director: 

1. 

Upon the filing of a complaint as set forth in  subsection A of this section, the Executive Director 
shall  make  such  investigation  as  the  Director  deems  appropriate  to  ascertain  the  facts,  provided 
that the complaint may be dismissed by the  Executive Director without investigation if it fails to 
allege adequately a violation of this chapter or is otherwise facially deficient. Except as set forth in 
§  31-7.B.4  below,  upon  completion  of  the  investigation  the  Executive  Director  shall  render  a 
determination in writing as to whether there are reasonable grounds to believe a violation of this 
chapter has occurred, and the facts supporting such determination. Reasonable grounds to believe 
means that the Director believes, after investigation, that it is more likely than not that a violation 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-14 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

of this chapter has occurred. This determination shall promptly be served on the parties. 

If  the  Executive  Director  determines  that  there  are  reasonable  grounds  to believe  a  violation  has 
occurred, or at any other time prior to a formal Commission hearing, the Director may attempt to 
conciliate  and  resolve  the  complaint.  The  Director  may  attempt  to  conciliate  the  matter  by 
methods  of  conference  and  persuasion  with  all  interested  parties  and  such  representatives  as  the 
parties may choose to assist them. Conciliation conferences shall be informal, and nothing said or 
done  during  such  conferences  shall  be  made  public  or  otherwise  used  as  evidence  by  the 
Commission,  its  members  or  any  of  its  staff,  or  the  parties  unless  the  parties  agree  thereto  in 
writing.  Nothing  said  in  such  conferences  shall  be  deemed  to  be  an  admission  of  any  sort.  The 
Executive Director may attempt conciliation by any means deemed appropriate. Conciliation shall 
not be attempted if the Executive Director determines that it would be futile or if enforcement of 
the  chapter  would  best  be  served  by  referring  the  matter  directly  to  the  Commission  for  a 
determination as to whether to hold a public hearing. 

a. 

If conciliation is attempted and the Executive Director determines that it is successful, the 
terms  of  the  conciliation  agreed  to  by  the  parties  may  be  reduced  to  writing  and 
incorporated into a conciliation agreement to be signed by the parties, which agreement is 
for conciliation purposes only and does not constitute an admission by any party that the 
law has been violated. It shall be a violation of this chapter to violate or fail to adhere to 
any  provision  contained  in  any  conciliation  agreement,  and  the  Commission  shall  have 
the  right  to  pursue  appropriate  legal  remedies  to  enforce  any  such  agreement  after 
consulting with and receiving a recommendation from the County Attorney and receiving 
authorization from the County Board. 

b. 

If conciliation is attempted and the Executive Director determines that it is unsuccessful, 
he  or  she  shall  promptly  refer  the  matter  to  the  Commission  for  a  determination  as  to 
whether to hold a public hearing. 

If  the  Executive  Director  determines  that  the  complaint  lacks  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  a 
violation  of  this  chapter  has  occurred,  the  Director  shall  dismiss  the  complaint  and  advise  the 
complainant in writing that such dismissal shall become final unless, within ten (10) business days 
of  receipt  of  notice  of  the  dismissal,  the  complainant  files  with  the  Commission  a  request  for  a 
review  of  the  determination  of  the  Executive  Director.  Upon  request  for  such  a  review,  the 
Commission  shall  afford  the  complainant  an  opportunity  to  appear  before  the  Commission  in 
person  or  by  representative  or  by  letter,  as  the  complainant  may  desire,  so  that  the  complainant 
may show that the Director's determination was an abuse of discretion. The  Commission may, in 
its discretion, request a response from the respondent. After such review, the Commission may, in 
its  discretion,  dismiss  such  complaint  if  it  finds  that  the  Executive  Director's  determination  was 
not  an  abuse  of  discretion.  If  the  Commission  determines  that  the  complaint  should  not  be 
dismissed,  it  shall  direct  the  Executive  Director  to  continue  the  investigation  or  proceed  with 
conciliation efforts, or the Commission may determine to hold a public hearing on the allegations 
in  the  complaint.  For  purposes  of  this  paragraph  only,  the  term  Commission  may  mean,  at  the 
discretion of the Chairman, a panel of three (3) or more members of the  Commission designated 
by the Chairman. 

4. 

If  the  Executive  Director  determines,  after  investigation,  that  the  available  evidence  does  not 
permit  a  determination  as  to  whether  there  are  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  a  violation  of  this 
chapter has occurred, he or she shall: 

a. 

b. 

Send a written notice to this effect to be served on the parties and include in such notice a 
statement of the reasons for such determination; and 

Refer  the  matter  to  the  Commission  for  a  determination  as  to  whether  to  hold  a  public 
hearing. 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-15 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

C.  

Determinations by the Commission as to whether to hold a public hearing: 

1. 

The Commission shall determine whether to hold a public hearing in all matters referred to it by 
the Executive Director in the following circumstances: 

a. 

When  there  is  a  determination  by  the  Executive  Director  that  there  are  reasonable 
grounds to believe that a violation of this chapter has occurred, and: 

(1) 

(2) 

There  is  a  determination  by  the  Director  that  conciliation  should  not  be 
attempted; or 

There is a determination by the Director that conciliation has been attempted and 
has been unsuccessful. 

b. 

When  there  is  a  determination  by  the  Executive  Director  that  there  are  not  reasonable 
grounds to believe that a violation of this chapter has occurred, but: 

(1) 

(2) 

The  complainant  has  filed  a  proper  request  for  review  of  such  determination; 
and 

The  Commission  has  concluded,  upon  reviewing  such  determination,  that  the 
complaint should not be dismissed and that the complaint should not be referred 
to the Executive Director for further investigation or conciliation. 

c. 

When there is a determination by the Executive Director that the available evidence does 
not  permit  a  determination  as  to  whether  there  are  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that  a 
violation of this chapter has occurred. 

2. 

3. 

The Commission shall base its determination as to whether to  hold a public hearing in any of the 
matters  described  in  subsection  C.1  above  in  its  sole  discretionary  judgment  as  to  how 
enforcement of this chapter would be best served, and other considerations deemed relevant, such 
as  the  time  and  expense  to  the  parties  if  a  hearing  is  held  and  the  seriousness  of  the  alleged 
violation. 

If the Commission determines not to hold a public hearing, it shall either dismiss the complaint or 
take such action as it deems appropriate and consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the 
powers of the Commission hereunder. 

D.  

Hearings held by the commission: 

1. 

If the Commission determines to hold a public hearing, it may consider all of the allegations and 
issues set forth in the complaint or, in its discretion, it may limit the scope of the hearing to one (1) 
or  more  of  the  allegations  or  issues  set  forth  in  the  complaint.  If  a  hearing  is  to  be  held,  the 
Commission shall notify the parties of the time, date and location of the hearing and serve upon 
them  a  statement  of  the  charges  against  the  respondent  and  the  issues  to  be  considered  at  the 
hearing. Such notice and statement shall be served at least fourteen (14) calendar days before the 
date of the hearing. The parties shall have the right to file written statements or arguments with the 
Commission  before  the  hearing.  The  Commission  may  request  the  parties  to  file  written 
statements or arguments before or after the hearing. The hearing shall be open to the public. The 
Commission  may  adopt  rules  for  the  conduct  of  hearings  before  it,  including  but  not  limited  to 
rules pertaining to the admission of documents or other evidence. Oral or documentary evidence 
may  be  received,  but  the  Commission  may  exclude  irrelevant,  immaterial,  incompetent,  or 
repetitious  evidence.  The  Commission  may  also,  in  its  discretion,  exclude  documents  or  other 
evidence  for  good  cause.  The  Commission  shall  not  be  bound  by  the  strict  rules  of  evidence 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-16 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

 
  

 
  
 
  
 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

prevailing in the courts of law or equity. 

2. 

The  Commission  may,  upon  proper  motion,  order  the  exclusion  of  witnesses  while  testimony  is 
being given at any such hearing. 

3. 

At any public hearing held by the Commission, each party shall be entitled: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

To be represented by privately retained counsel of his or her choice; 

To present his or her case or defense by oral or documentary evidence, to be given under 
oath or by affirmation; 

To submit rebuttal evidence; and 

To conduct such cross-examination as may be permitted by the Commission for a full and 
true disclosure of the relevant facts. 

4. 

5. 

The Executive Director shall be responsible for assuring the development of the evidentiary record 
before  the  Commission  and  may  introduce  evidence,  examine  or  cross-examine  witnesses,  or 
make argument if the Director deems it advisable in order to fully apprise the Commission of the 
facts or the applicable law. 

The Commission shall keep a full record of the hearing, which record shall be open for inspection 
and copying pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act. 

E.  

Decisions by the Commission: 

1. 

2. 

The  burden  of  persuasion  is  upon  the  complainant  to  prove  by  a  preponderance  of  the  evidence 
that the respondent has committed or is committing violation(s) of this chapter. 

If,  after  the  hearing,  the  Commission  determines  by  a  preponderance  of  the  evidence  that  the 
respondent  has  committed  or  is  committing  the  alleged  violation(s)  of  this  chapter,  the 
Commission shall state its findings and may issue recommendations, to be served promptly on the 
parties,  requesting  the  respondent  to  cease  and  desist  from  such  violation(s)  and  to  take  such 
action as may be indicated to effectuate the purpose of this chapter, including but not limited to the 
payment  by  respondent  of  compensatory  damages  to  any  person  or  persons  found  by  the 
Commission  to  be  so  entitled  by  reason  of  respondent's  violation(s)  of  this  chapter,  or  the 
placement or restoration of any person in or to such status in which the  Commission finds he or 
she would be but for respondent's violation(s) of this chapter. 

3. 

If, after receiving the evidence presented at the hearing, the Commission finds that the respondent 
has not engaged in the alleged violation(s) of this chapter, the Commission shall state its findings 
and shall dismiss the complaint. Prompt notice of such action shall be given to the parties.  

A.  

(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 91-25, 6-22-91)  
 
§ 31-8. Enforcement by the Court. 
 
 
If  the  Commission  finds  that  a  respondent  has  committed  a  violation  of  this  chapter  and 
determines  that  appropriate  remedial  measures  have  not  been  taken,  the  Commission,  after  consulting  with  and 
receiving  a  recommendation  from  the  County  Attorney  and  receiving  authorization  from  the  County  Board,  may 
bring an appropriate  action in any court of competent jurisdiction to: prove, de novo, that the person violated this 
chapter; secure compliance with this chapter; and/or obtain appropriate redress or relief for any person injured as a 
result of a violation of this chapter. 
 
 

Whenever  the  Commission  has  probable  cause  to  believe  that  any  person  has  engaged  in  or  is 

B.  

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-17 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

C.  

engaging  in  any  unlawful  discriminatory  practice,  and  the  Commission,  after  a  good  faith  effort  to  obtain, 
voluntarily,  the  data  and  information necessary  to determine  whether  a violation has  occurred,  has  been unable  to 
obtain such information, it may request the County Attorney, with the approval of the County Board, to apply to the 
judge  of  the  Circuit  Court  of  the  jurisdiction  in  which  the  respondent  resides  or  is  doing  business  for  a  subpoena 
duces tecum against any person refusing to produce such data and information. The judge of the court, upon good 
cause  shown,  may  cause  the  subpoena  to  be  issued.  Any  person  failing  to  comply  with  such  subpoena  shall  be 
subject to punishment for contempt by the court issuing the subpoena. For purposes of this section "person" includes 
any  individual,  partnership,  corporation,  association,  legal  representative,  mutual  company,  joint  stock  company, 
trust,  unincorporated  organization,  employee,  employment  agency,  labor  organization,  joint  labor-management 
committee, or an agent thereof, or other "person" as defined by this chapter. 
 
 
If,  at  any  time  after  a  complaint  has  been  filed,  or  after  initiation  of  any  investigation  on  the 
Commission's  own  initiative,  the  Commission  determines  that  a  court  order  requiring  a  party  to  refrain  from  any 
conduct is necessary to prevent irreparable harm to any person, the Commission, after consulting with and receiving 
a  recommendation  from  the  County  Attorney  and  receiving  authorization  from  the  County  Board,  may  bring 
appropriate  action  to  prevent  such  irreparable  harm,  including  but  not  limited  to  petitioning  a  court  of  competent 
jurisdiction for a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction.  
(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89) 
 
§ 31-9. Exemptions. 
 
 
organization to: 
 
  

Exemption  on  religious  organizations.  It  is  not  a  violation  of  this  chapter  for  a  religious 

Limit  admission  to  or  give preference  in  its  accommodations,  facilities  or  services  to  persons  of 
the  same  religion  or  denomination,  or  to  make  a  selection  of  applicants  or  individuals  that  is 
reasonably calculated to promote the religious principles for which it is established or maintained. 

A.  

1. 

 
  
 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

Reserved. 

B.  

Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Bar  bona  fide  housing  for  the  elderly  or  handicapped  persons  from  limiting  admission  or  giving 
preference to persons of a given age or persons with handicapping conditions; 

Bar  a  person  from  maintaining  an  establishment  which  provides  sleeping  accommodations 
exclusively to persons of the same sex; 

Make  it  an  unlawful  act  to  require  that  a  person  have  legal  capacity  to  enter  into  an  irrevocable 
contract; or 

Require  any  person  or  group  of  persons  selling,  renting  or  leasing  property  to  exercise  a  higher 
degree of care for a person with a handicap than for a person without a handicap. 

C.  

Employment practices: 

1. 

Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  this  chapter,  it  shall  not  be  an  unlawful  employment 
practice to: 

a. 

b. 

Restrict employment to persons of a particular religion, sex, sexual orientation, national 
origin or age, where such religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin or age is a bona 
fide occupational qualification; 

Take  actions  on  the  basis  of  a  handicap,  pursuant  to  law  or  regulation  governing  any 
employment or training program which is designed to benefit handicapped persons; 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-18 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

 
  

 
  
 
  

c. 

Advertise  and  offer  employment  only  to  handicapped  persons  when  other  employment 
compatible  with  their  ability would  not  be  available  to  handicapped  persons  because  of 
their handicaps; or 

d. 

To engage in affirmative action programs permitted by state or federal law. 

2. 

Nothing  in  this  chapter  shall  prohibit  an  employer  from  refusing  to  hire  or  promote,  from 
disciplining,  transferring  or  discharging  or  taking  any  other  personnel  action  pertaining  to  an 
applicant  or  an  employee  who,  because  of  his  disability,  is  unable  adequately  to  perform  his 
duties, or cannot perform such duties in  a manner which would not endanger his health or safety 
or  the  health  or  safety  of  others.  Nothing  in  this  section  shall  subject  an  employer  to  any  legal 
liability resulting from the refusal to employ or promote or from the discharge, transfer, discipline 
of, or the taking of any other personnel action pertaining to a person with a disability who, because 
of  his  disability,  is  unable  adequately  to  perform  his  duties  or  cannot  perform  such  duties  in  a 
manner which would not endanger his health or safety or the health or safety of others.  

C.  

B.  

A.  

Any respondent adversely affected by the provisions of this section shall retain all rights of appeal 

(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 92-51, 11-14-92) 
 
§ 31-10. Enforcement by County Agencies. 
 
Public  contractors.  Upon  publication  or  receipt  of  the  findings  and  recommendations  of  the 
 
Commission declaring the respondent to be in violation of this chapter, and with the approval of the County Board, 
the purchasing agent of Arlington County may deem the respondent ineligible for award of a public contract until 
the  County  Board  is  satisfied  that  the  respondent  will  comply  with  those  recommendations  of  the  Commission 
which the County Board feels are proper and appropriate. 
 
County  financial  assistance.  Upon  publication  or  receipt  of  a  copy  of  the  findings  and 
 
recommendations of the  Commission declaring the respondent to be in violation of this  chapter, the County Board 
may take appropriate action to terminate or refuse to grant or continue any public financial assistance to a program 
or  activity  of  respondent  until  the  County  Board  is  satisfied  that  the  respondent  will  comply  with  those 
recommendations of the Commission which the County Board feels are proper and appropriate. 
 
 
provided for by the applicable rules, regulations or laws of Arlington County.  
(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 92-51, 11-14-92) 
 
§ 31-11. Inspections, Records and Notices. 
 
 
Every person subject to this chapter shall post such notices, make and keep such records relevant 
to  the  determination  of  whether  discriminatory  acts  have  been  or  are  being  committed,  preserve  such  records  for 
such periods, and make such reports therefrom as the Commission shall prescribe in order to assure the enforcement 
of this chapter. 
 
 
The Commission, or any designated representative of the Commission, may request access at any 
reasonable  time  to  premises,  records  and  documents  relevant  to  a  complaint  or  notice  of  investigations  and  may 
request  the  opportunity  to  examine,  photograph  and  copy  evidence  upon  presenting  written  authorization  of  the 
Chairman  of  the  Commission  or  the  Executive  Director,  duly  executed  by  the  Chairman  or  Executive  Director  in 
accordance with the Commission's rules or procedures. 
 
 
When a complaint or notice of investigation has been filed against a person under this chapter, the 
respondent shall preserve all records relevant to the allegations until final disposition of the complaint or notice of 
investigation.  
(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 92-51, 11-14-92) 
 
§ 31-12. Savings Provisions and Nonabatement of Matters. 

A.  

B.  

C.  

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-19 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

B.  

A.  

The  provisions  of  this  chapter,  so  far  as  they  are  the  same  as  those  of  chapters  repealed  by  this 

 
 
chapter, are intended as a continuation of such chapters and not as new enactments. 
 
 
The provisions of this  chapter shall take effect on July 1, 1989. Any amendments to this  chapter 
shall apply to all matters pending before the Commission on the effective date of the amendment, unless a contrary 
intention is clearly expressed. 
 
 
law, rule or regulation; and insofar as this chapter does so conflict, it shall be superseded thereby.  
(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 92-51, 11-14-92) 
 
§ 31-13. Nonexclusive Remedy.  
 

Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to conflict with any applicable state or federal 

C.  

Any  person  who  is  aggrieved  by  any  act  prohibited  herein  may  bring  an  appropriate  action  in  a  court  of 
competent jurisdiction to seek damages, redress of injury, or injunctive relief arising out of any act prohibited herein 
as provided for by applicable law. Nothing herein shall prevent any person from exercising any right or seeking any 
remedy to which he or she might otherwise be entitled, nor shall any person be required to pursue any remedy set 
forth  herein  as  a  condition  of  seeking  relief  from  any  court  or  other  agency,  except  as  is  otherwise  provided  by 
applicable state or federal laws.  
(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 92-51, 11-14-92) 
 
§ 31-14. Notices; Service.  
 

A.  

All notices required under the provisions of this chapter shall be served either in person or by mailing to the 
last-known  address  appearing  in  the  Commission's  records.  Counsel  of  record  shall  be  entitled  to  a  copy  of  any 
notices  served  upon  his  or  her  client  which  shall  be  mailed  to  him  or  her  at  his  or  her  last-known  address  as  it 
appears in the records of the Commission. It is the duty of the parties to advise the  Commission of any changes in 
address.  
(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 92-51, 11-14-92) 
 
§ 31-15. Time Limitations. 
 
 
A complaint filed under the provision of this chapter shall be dismissed by the Executive Director 
if the alleged violation of this chapter ended more than one hundred eighty (180) days before the date of filing of the 
complaint. 
 
 
passage of one (1) year from the date of the filing of the complaint, unless: 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

Any  complaint  filed  under  the  provisions  of  this  chapter  shall  be  deemed  dismissed  after  the 

The Commission, after a public hearing, has issued findings and recommendations; 

A conciliation agreement between the parties has been reached; 

The Commission has previously dismissed the complaint; or 

B.  

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The Commission, having determined before or after the expiration of this one (1) year period that 
there  was  good  cause  for  extending  this  time  limitation,  has,  by  majority  vote,  so  extended  it, 
provided that in no event may the Commission extend any case beyond a date that is two (2) years 
from the date of the filing of the complaint, and provided further that, in computing the time under 
the provisions of this  section, there shall be excluded those days which elapse between the filing 
and final conclusion of any legal proceedings pertaining to the validity of, or seeking to enforce or 
prohibit the enforcement of, any of the provisions of this chapter.  

(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 92-51, 11-14-92) 
 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-20 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

     HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                      

§ 31-16. Severability.  
 

The  provisions  of  this  chapter  are  severable,  and  if  any  provision,  word,  sentence,  clause,  section  or  part 
thereof  is  held  illegal,  invalid,  unconstitutional  or  inapplicable  to  any  person  or  circumstance,  such  illegality, 
invalidity,  unconstitutionality  or  inapplicability  shall  not  affect  or  impair  any  of  the  remaining  provisions,  words, 
sentences,  clauses,  sections  or  parts  of  this  chapter,  or  their  application  to  other  persons  or  circumstances.  It  is 
hereby  declared  to  be  the  legislative  intent  that  this  chapter  would  have  been  adopted  if  such  illegal,  invalid  or 
unconstitutional provision, word, sentence, clause, section or part had not been included therein, and if the person or 
circumstances to which the chapter or any part thereof is inapplicable had been specifically exempted therefrom.  

 

(Ord. No. 89-3, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 89-17, 7-1-89; Ord. No. 92-51, 11-14-92; Ord. No. 20-13, 7-21-2020) 

Code Updated 7-2020 

 

31-21 

 

