ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                           EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

Chapter 57 

 

 

EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL* 

Editor’s Note:  Ord. No. 08-01, adopted January 26, 2008, amended Ch. 57, in its entirety, to read as 

  

__________  
* 
herein set out.  
__________  
 
 

§ 57-1. Title. 
§ 57-2. Purpose. 
§ 57-3. Authorization. 
§ 57-4. Definitions. 
§ 57-5. Local Erosion and Sediment Control Program. 
§ 57-6. Regulated Land-Disturbing Activities. 
§ 57-7. Action on Erosion and Sediment Control Plans Prior to Land-Disturbing Activity. 
§ 57-8. Issuance of Land-Disturbing Permit and Fees. 
§ 57-9. Monitoring, Reports and Inspections. 
§ 57-9.1. Adherence to Approved Plans and Specifications. 
§ 57-10. Administrative Appeal; Judicial Review. 
§ 57-11. Penalties, Injunctions, and Other Legal Actions. 
§ 57-12. Severability. 
§ 57-13. Conflict of Chapter. 

This chapter shall be known as the "Erosion and Sediment Control Chapter of Arlington County, Virginia."  

 
§ 57-1. Title.  
 

(6-27-76; Ord. No. 08-01, 1-26-08) 
 
§ 57-2. Purpose.  
 

The  purpose  of  this  chapter  is  to  conserve  the  land,  water,  air  and  other  natural  resources  of  Arlington 
County and promote the public health and welfare of the people in Arlington County by establishing requirements 
for the control of erosion and sedimentation, and by establishing procedures whereby these requirements shall be 
administered and enforced.  
(6-27-76; Ord. No. 08-01, 1-26-08) 
 
§ 57-3. Authorization.  
 

This chapter is authorized by the Code of Virginia, Title 62.1, Chapter 3.1, Article 15:51 et. seq., known as 
the  "Erosion  and  Sediment  Control  Law."  This  article  provides  for  a  comprehensive  statewide  program  with 
standards and guidelines to control soil erosion and sedimentation which is implemented on the local level.  
(6-27-76; Ord. No. 92-16, 5-1-92; Ord. No. 08-01, 1-26-08; Ord. No. 14-05, 5-10-14, effective 7-1-14) 
 
§ 57-4. Definitions.  
 

The following words and terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the following meanings unless the 

context clearly indicates otherwise: 

 
“Administrator” means the County Manager or his designee. 

 
 
 
“Agreement  in  lieu  of  plan”  means  a  contract  between  the  plan  approving  authority  and  the  owner  that 
specifies  conservation  measures  that  must  be  implemented  in  the  construction  of  or  addition  to  a  single-family 

Code Updated 7-2018 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                           EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL 

“County Manager” means the County Manager of Arlington County or his or her designee or authorized 

“Applicant” means any person submitting an erosion and sediment control plan for approval or requesting 

“Common plan of development or sale”means a contiguous area where separate and distinct construction 

residence; this contract may be executed by the plan-approving authority in lieu of a formal site plan. 
 
 
the issuance of a permit, when required, authorizing land-disturbing activities to commence. 
 
 
activities may be taking place at different times on different schedules. 
 
 
agent or representative. 
 
 
 
“Erosion, and sediment control plan” or “plan” means a document containing material for the conservation 
of soil and water resources of a unit or group of units of land. It may include appropriate maps and appropriate soil 
and  water  plan  inventory  and  management  information  with  needed  interpretations  and  a  record  of  decisions 
contributing to conservation treatment. The plan shall contain all major conservation decisions to assure that entire 
unit or units of land will be treated so as to achieve the conservation objectives. 
 
 
 
“Land-disturbing  activity”  means  any  man-made  change  to  the  land  surface  which  may  result  in  soil 
 
erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands in the state, including, but 
not limited to, clearing, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, except that the term shall not include:  
 
 
 

“Governing body” means the County Board of Arlington County. 

Individual service connections;  

(1) 

(2) 

Installation,  maintenance,  or  repair  of  any  underground  public  utility  lines  when  such  activity 
occurs on an existing hard-surfaced road, street, or sidewalk provided such land-disturbing activity 
is confined to the area of the road, street, or sidewalk which is hard-surfaced;  

(3) 

(4)  

(5)  

(6) 

(7) 

(8) 

(9) 

Septic tank lines or drainage fields unless included in an overall plan for land-disturbing activity 
relating to construction of the building to be served by the septic tank system;  

Surface or deep mining; 

Exploration or drilling for oil and gas including well-site, roads, feeder lines and off-site disposal 
areas;  

Installation  of  fence  and  sign  posts  or  telephone  and  electric  poles  and  other  kinds  of  posts  or 
poles;  

Shoreline  erosion  control  projects  on  tidal  waters  when  all  of  the  land-disturbing  activities  are 
within the regulatory authority of and approved by local  wetland boards, the Marine  Resources 
Commission or the United States Army Corps of Engineers; however, any associated land that is 
disturbed  outside  of  this  exempted  area  shall  remain  subject  to  this  article  and  the  regulations 
adopted pursuant thereto;  

Such  minor  land-disturbing  activities  as  home  gardens  and  individual  landscaping,  repairs,  and 
maintenance work of areas which are less than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet and 
for which no building permit is required;  

Emergency  work  to  protect  life,  limb,  or  property,  and  emergency  repairs;  provided  that  if  the 
land-disturbing activity would have required an approved erosion and sediment control plan, if the 
activity  were  not  an  emergency,  then  the  land  area  disturbed  shall  be  shaped  and  stabilized  in 
accordance with the requirement of the local erosion and sediment control program;  

(10) 

Livestock feed lot operations, tilling, planting, or harvesting of agricultural, horticultural, forestry, 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Code Updated 7-2018 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                           EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL 

or  forest  crops,  including  engineering  operations  as  follows:  construction  of  terraces,  terrace 
outlets,  check  dams,  desilting  basins,  dikes,  ponds,  ditches,  strip  cropping,  lister  furrowing, 
contour cultivating, contour furrowing, to reforest or convert to bona fide agriculture or improved 
pasture use, land drainage and land irrigation;  

Repair or rebuilding of tracks, right-of-ways, bridges, communication facilities, and other related 
structures and facilities of a railroad company;  

Preparation for single-family residences separately built where the disturbed site area is less than 
two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet in size, unless in conjunction with common plan of 
development or sale;  

Disturbed  land  areas  for  commercial  or  noncommercial  uses  of  less  than  two  thousand  five 
hundred (2,500) square feet in size, unless in conjunction with common plan of development or 
sale;  

 

 

 

 

(11) 

(12) 

(13) 

(14) 

Agricultural  engineering  operations  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  construction  of  terraces, 
terrace  outlets,  check  dams,  desilting  basins,  dikes,  ponds  not  required  to  comply  with  the 
provisions  of  the  Dam  Safety  Act,  Article  2  (§  10.1-604  et  seq.)  of  Chapter  6  of  the  Code  of 
Virginia,  ditches,  strip  cropping,  lister  furrowing,  contour  cultivating,  contour  furrowing,  land 
drainage and land irrigation. 

 
“Land-disturbing permit” means a permit issued by Arlington County for any land-disturbing activity that 
 
requires the submission and review of an approved plan by the plan approving authority under the provisions of this 
chapter.  
 
“Local erosion and sediment control program” or “local control program” means an outline of the various 
 
methods  employed  by  Arlington  County  to  regulate  land-disturbing  activities  and  thereby  minimize  erosion  and 
sedimentation  in  compliance  with  the  state  program  and  including,  without  limitation,  such  items  as  local 
ordinances, policies, and guidelines, technical materials, inspection, enforcement, and evaluation. 
 
“Natural  channel  design  concepts”  means  the  utilization  of  engineering  analysis  and  fluvial  geomorphic 
 
processes  to  create,  rehabilitate,  restore,  or  stabilize  an  open  conveyance  system  for  the  purpose  of  creating  or 
recreating  a  stream  that  conveys  its  bankfull  storm  event  within  its  banks  and  allows  larger  flows  to  access  its 
bankfull bench and its floodplain. 
 
“Owner” means the owner or owners of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate therein, a mortgagee or 
 
vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee, or other person, firm or corporation in 
control of a property. 
 
 
location. 
 
 
the person who certifies that the approved erosion and sediment control program will be followed. 
 
“Person” means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, 
 
trust,  estate,  commission,  board,  public  or  private  institution,  utility,  cooperative,  county,  city,  town,  or  other 
political subdivision of this state, any interstate body, or any other legal entity. 
 
“Plan approving authority” means the Arlington County Department of Environmental Services which is 
 
responsible for determining the adequacy of a plan submitted for land-disturbing activities on a unit or units of land 
and which is responsible for inspecting land-disturbing activity to ensure compliance with the approved plan. 
 
 
storm event. 

“Peak  flow  rate”  means  the  maximum  instantaneous  flow  from  a  given  storm  condition  at  a  particular 

“Runoff volume” means the volume of water that runs off the land development project from a prescribed 

“Permittee” means the person to whom the local permit authorizing land-disturbing activities is issued or 

Code Updated 7-2018 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                           EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL 

B.  

A.  

“Subdivision” shall have the meaning in the definition provided in Chapter 23, Subdivisions, of the Code of 

“Water quality volume” means the volume equal to the first one-half (1/2) inch of runoff multiplied by the 

“Standards”  means  the  criteria,  guidelines,  techniques,  and  methods  for  the  control  of  erosion  and 

“State waters” means all waters on the surface and under the ground wholly or partially within or bordering 

 
 
sedimentation. 
 
“State  erosion  and  sediment  control  program”  or  “state  program”  means  the  program  adopted  by  the 
 
Commonwealth of Virginia consisting of conservation standards, guidelines, and criteria to minimize erosion and 
sedimentation. 
 
 
the Commonwealth of Virginia or within its jurisdiction. 
 
 
Arlington County, Virginia. 
 
 
impervious surface of the land development project. 
(6-27-76; 7-30-77; Ord. No. 82-11, 4-25-82; Ord. No. 92-16, 5-1-92; Ord. No. 94-17, 6-4-94; Ord. No. 98-25, 10-
17-99; Ord. No. 04-25, 10-2-04; Ord. No. 08-01, 1-26-08; Ord. No. 14-05, 5-10-14, effective 7-1-14) 
 
§ 57-5. Local Erosion and Sediment Control Program. 
 
 
This chapter and the current  edition of the "Virginia Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook" 
shall  be  an  integral  part  of  the  Arlington  County  erosion  and  sediment  control  program  and  shall  comprise  the 
Arlington County Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook. 
 
 
The  Arlington  County  Board  hereby  adopts  the  Virginia  Erosion  and  Sediment  Control 
Regulations (Section 4VAC50-30, as amended) for controlling erosion and sediment from land-disturbing activities 
as setting the minimum requirements for controlling erosion and sedimentation from land-disturbing activities.  In 
addition  to  these  minimum  requirements,  the  relevant  requirements  of  the  Stormwater  Management  Ordinance, 
Chapter 60 of the Code of Arlington County, Virginia, also apply. 
 
 
requirements of the most recent version of Minimum Standard 19 contained in the Virginia Erosion and Sediment 
Control Regulations, any land-disturbing activity that provides for stormwater management intended to address any 
flow rate capacity and velocity requirements for natural or manmade channels shall satisfy the flow rate capacity and 
velocity requirements for natural or manmade channels if the practices are designed to (i) detain the water quality 
volume and to release it over forty-eight (48) hours; (ii) detain and release over a twenty-four (24) hour period the 
expected rainfall resulting from the one (1) year, twenty-four (24) hour storm; and (iii) reduce the allowable peak 
flow rate resulting from the one and one-half (1.5), two (2), and ten (10) year, twenty-four (24) hour storms to a 
level that is less than or equal to the peak flow rate from the site assuming it was in a good forested condition, 
achieved through multiplication of the forested peak flow rate by a reduction factor that is equal to the runoff 
volume from the site when it was in a good forested condition divided by the runoff volume from the site in its 
proposed condition, and shall be exempt from any flow rate capacity and velocity requirements for natural or 
manmade channels as defined herein or other County regulation. For plans approved on or after July 1, 2014, the 
flow requirements of this subsection shall be satisfied by compliance with water quanity requirements in the 
Stormwater Management Act (§ 62.1-44.15:24 et. seq.) and attendant regulations, unless such land-disturbing 
activities are in accordance with the grandfathering provisions of the Virginia Stormwater Management (VSMP) 
Program.  
 
 
The  "Virginia  Erosion  and  Sediment  Control  Handbook,"  current  edition,  shall  be  used  by  an 
applicant making a submittal under the provisions of this chapter in preparing the erosion and sediment control plan. 
The  plan  approving  authority,  in  considering  the  adequacy  of  such  submitted  plan,  shall  be  guided  by  the  same 
guidelines and standards.  
 
 
In  accordance  with  §  62.1-44.15:52  of  the  Code  of  Virginia,  stream  restoration  and  relocation 
projects that incorporate natural channel design concepts are not man-made channels and shall be exempt from any 

In accordance with § 62.1-44.15:52 of the Code of Virginia, and as an alternative to the 

D.  

C. 

E. 

Code Updated 7-2018 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                           EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL 

E. 

C.  

B.  

A.  

D.  

State Water Control Board approval of linear utility and railroad project specifications. 

Projects  undertaken  by  state  agencies  in  accordance  with  Section 62.1-44.15:56 of  the  Code  of 

flow rate capacity and velocity requirements for natural or man-made channels as set forth herein or applicable state 
law. 
(6-27-76; Ord. No. 82-11, 4-25-82; Ord. No. 92-16, 5-1-92; Ord. No. 94-17, 6-4-94; Ord. No. 08-01, 1-26-08; Ord. 
No. 14-05, 5-10-14, effective 7-1-14) 
 
§ 57-6. Regulated Land-Disturbing Activities. 
 
 
Except  as  provided  in  subsections  B,  C  and  E,  no  person  shall  engage  in  any  land-disturbing 
activity until he has submitted to the plan approving authority an erosion and sediment control plan for such land-
disturbing activity and until that plan has been reviewed and approved by the plan approving authority.  Where the 
land-disturbing activity results from the construction of or addition to a single-family residence, an agreement in lieu 
of a plan may be substituted for an erosion and sediment control plan if executed by the plan approving authority. 
 
 
Virginia shall be deemed not to be in violation of this chapter for land-disturbing activities. 
 
 
Any  person  whose  land-disturbing  activities  involve  lands  which  extend  into  the  jurisdiction  of 
another local erosion and sediment control program may, at the request of one or all of the jurisdictions, submit a 
plan to the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality for review and approval, rather than submission to each 
jurisdiction concerned. 
 
 
Whenever  a  land-disturbing  activity  is  proposed  to  be  conducted  by  a  contractor  performing 
construction  work  pursuant  to  a  construction  contract,  the  preparation,  submission,  and  approval  of  the  required 
erosion and sediment control plan shall be the responsibility of the owner of the land.  
 
 
 
 
person engaging in the creation and operation of wetland mitigation or stream restoration bank or banks, in multiple 
jurisdictions, which have been approved and are operated in accordance with applicable federal and state guidance, 
laws, or regulations for the establishment, use, and operation of wetland mitigation or stream restoration banks, 
pursuant to a permit issued by the Department of Environmental Quality, the Marine Resources Commission, or the 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, may, at the option of that person, file general erosion and sediment control 
specifications for wetland mitigation banks annually with the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality for 
review and approval consistent with guidelines established by the State Water Control Board. 
(6-27-76;  Ord.  No.  82-11,  4-25-82;  Ord.  No.  94-17,  6-4-94;  Ord.  No.  08-01,  1-26-08;  Ord.  No.  14-05,  5-10-14, 
effective 7-1-14) 
 
§ 57-7. Action on Erosion and Sediment Control Plans Prior to Land-Disturbing Activity. 
 
 
Within 60 days, the plan approving authority shall review and approve any erosion and sediment 
control plan submitted to it if it determines that the plan meets the standards of the local control program and if the 
person responsible for carrying out the plan certifies that he will properly perform the erosion and sediment control 
measures included in the plan and will comply with the provisions of this chapter. 
 
 
When a plan is determined to be inadequate, written notice of disapproval stating the specific 
reasons for its disapproval shall be communicated to the applicant within 45 days. The notice shall specify the 
modifications, terms, and conditions that will permit approval of the plan.  If no action is taken by the plan 
approving authority within the time specified above, the plan shall be deemed approved and the applicant shall be 
authorized to proceed with the proposed activity.  The plan approving authority shall act on any plan that has been 
previously disapproved within 45 days after the plan has been revised, resubmitted for approval, and deemed 
adequate.  
 
 
 
  

Where, upon inspection of the site, the plan approving authority has found the implementation of 

The plan approving authority may require changes to an approved plan in the following cases: 

In accordance with the procedure set forth by § 62.1-44.15:55E of the Code of Virginia, any 

A.  

C.  

B.  

F.  

1. 

Code Updated 7-2018 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                           EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL 

the plan to be inadequate to accomplish the erosion and sediment control objectives of the plan; or 

 
  

2. 

Where the person responsible for carrying out the approved plan finds that because of  changed 
circumstances  or  for  other  reasons  the  approved  plan  cannot  be  effectively  carried  out,  the 
proposed amendments to the plan, consistent with the requirements of this chapter, are agreed to 
by the plan approving authority and the person responsible for carrying out the plan.  

D. 

B.  

A.  

 
 
In addition, as a prerequisite to engaging in the land-disturbing activities shown on the approved 
plan, the person responsible for carrying out the plan shall provide the name of an individual holding a certificate of 
competence to the program authority, as provided by § 62.1-44.15:52 of the Code of Virginia, who will be in charge 
of and responsible for carrying out the land-disturbing activity.  However, any plan approving authority may waive 
the  certificate  of  competence  requirement  for  an  agreement  in  lieu  of  a  plan  for  construction  of  a  single  family 
residence. If a violation occurs during the land-disturbing activity, then the person reesponsible for carrying out the 
agreement in lieu of a plan shall correct the violation and provide the name of an individual holding a certificate of 
competence, as provided by § 62.1-44.15:52 of the Code of Virginia. Failure to provide the name of an individual 
holding  a  certifcate  of  competence  prior  to  engaging  in  land-disturbing  actiities  may  result  in  revocation  of  the 
approval of the plan and the person responsible for carrying out the plan shall be subject to the penalties provided 
herein. 
 
(6-27-76;  Ord.  No.  92-16,  5-1-92;  Ord.  No.  94-17,  6-4-94;  Ord.  No.  08-01,  1-36-08;  Ord.  No.  14-05,  5-10-14, 
effective 7-1-14) 
 
§ 57-8. Issuance of Land-Disturbing Permit and Fees. 
 
 
chapter, until he has acquired a land-disturbing permit from the plan approving authority. 
 
 
No  grading,  building,  or  other  permits  for  land-disturbing  activities  may  be  issued  unless  the 
applicant has an approved erosion and sediment control plan as required by this chapter and certification that the 
plan will be followed, and evidence of Virginia stormwater management state permit coverage, if applicable. 
 
  
An erosion and sediment control fee for reviewing plans and performing field inspections shall be 
collected at the time of building permit application according to the Arlington County Plan and Permit Review Fee 
Schedule adopted by the County Board.  
 
 (6-27-76; Ord. No. 82-11, 4-25-82; Ord. No. 90-5, 7-1-90; Ord. No. 92-16, 5-1-92; Ord. No. 94-17, 6-4-94; Ord. 
No. 01-9, 4-21-01; Ord. No. 07-07, 4-21-07, effective 7-1-07; Ord. No. 08-01, 1-26-08; Ord. No. 09-14, 4-28-09; 
effective 7-1-09; Ord. No. 14-05, 5-10-14, effective 7-1-14; Ord. No. 18-06, 4-21-18, effective 7-1-18) 
 
§ 57-9. Monitoring, Reports and Inspections.  
 

No  person  shall  engage  in  any  regulated  land-disturbing  activity,  as  defined  in  §  58-6  of  this 

The plan approving authority (i) shall periodically inspect the land-disturbing activity and require that an 
individual holding a certificate of competence as provided by 62.1-44.15:52 will be responsible for carrying out the 
land-disturbing activity and (ii) may require that the person responsible for carrying out the erosion and sediment 
control  plan  furnish  periodic  monitoring  reports  of  the  land-disturbing  activity  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 
approved plan and to determine whether the measures required in that plan are effective in controlling erosion and 
sediment  resulting  from  the  land-disturbing  activity.  However,  the  plan  approving  authority  may  waive  the 
certificate of competence requirement for an agreement in lieu of a plan for construction of or addition to a single 
family residence.   

 
The right-of-entry to conduct such inspections shall be expressly reserved in the permit. The permit holder, 
or his designee, shall be given notice of the inspection.  The owner, permittee, or person responsible for carrying out 
the plan shall be given notice of the inspection.   

  
If the plan approving authority determines that the permit holder has failed to comply with the plan, the 
plan approving authority  shall immediately  serve a notice  to comply or notice of violation upon the permittee or 

C. 

Code Updated 7-2018 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                           EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL 

person responsible  for carrying out  the plan by registered or certified  mail to  the address  specified in  the permit 
application  or  in  the  plan  certification,  or  by  delivery  at  the  site  of  the  land-disturbing  activities  to  the  agent  or 
employee  supervising  such  activities.  Such  notice  shall  set  forth  specifically  the  measures  needed  to  come  into 
compliance with such plan and shall specify the time within which such measures shall be completed. If the permit 
holder fails to comply within the time specified, his permit may be revoked; furthermore, he shall be deemed to be 
in violation of this chapter and the plan reviewing authority may pursue enforcement as provided by this chapter. 
(6-27-76; Ord. No. 87-4, 1-24-87; Ord. No. 92-16, 5-1-92; Ord. No. 94-17, 6-4-94; Ord. No. 08-01, 1-26-08; Ord. 
No. 14-05, 5-10-14, effective 7-1-14) 
 
§ 57-9.1. Stop Work Orders.  
 

Upon issuance of an inspection report denoting  a violation of the terms of the permit or any applicable law, 
the County Manager or his designee, in conjunction with or subsequent to a notice to comply, as specified in § 57-9 
above, may issue an order requiring that all or part of the land-disturbing activities permitted on the site be stopped 
until the specified corrective measures have been taken, or, if land-disturbing activities have commenced without an 
approved  plan,  as  required  by  this  chapter,  then  all  of  the  land-disturbing  activities  shall  be  stopped  until  an 
approved plan or any required permits are obtained. Where the alleged noncompliance is causing or is in imminent 
danger  of  causing  harmful  erosion  of  lands  or  sediment  deposits  in  waters  within  the  watersheds  of  the 
Commonwealth, or where the land-disturbing activities have commenced without an approved plan or any required 
permits,  such  an  order  may  be  issued  without  regard  to  whether  the  permit  holder  has  been  issued  a  notice  to 
comply, as specified in § 57-9 above. Otherwise, such an order may be issued only after the permit holder has failed 
to comply with such a notice to comply, as specified in § 57-9 above. The order shall be served in the same manner 
as a notice to comply, as specified in § 57-9 above, and shall remain in effect for a period of seven (7) days from the 
date of service pending application by the enforcing authority or permit holder for appropriate relief to the Circuit 
Court of Arlington County. The order for disturbance without an approved plan or permits shall be served upon the 
owner by registered or certified mail to the address specified in the land records of Arlington County, shall be posted 
on  the  site  where  the  disturbance  is  occurring,  and  shall  remain  in  effect  until  such  time  as  permits  and  plan 
approvals are secured, except in such situations where an agricultural exemption applies.  If the alleged violator has 
not obtained an approved erosion and sediment control plan or any required permits within seven days from the date 
of the service of the order, the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality or the County Manager or designee 
may  issue  a  subsequent  order  to  the  owner  requiring  that  all  construction  and  other  work  on  the  site,  other  than 
corrective  measures,  be  stopped  until  an  approved  sediment  control  plan  and  any  required  permits  have  been 
obtained.    The  subsequent  order  shall  be  served  upon  the  owner  by  registered  or  certified  mail  to  the  address 
specified in the permit application or the land records of the locality in which the site is located.  The owner may 
appeal the issuance of any order to the Circuit Court of Arlington County or other appropriate court.  Any person 
violating or failing,  neglecting or refusing to obey an order issued by  the Virginia Department of Environmental 
Quality  or  the  County  Manager  or  designee  may  be  compelled  in  a  proceeding  instituted  in  the  Circuit  Court  of 
Arlington  County  or  other  appropriate  court  to  obey  same  and  to  comply  therewith  by  injunction,  mandamus  or 
other appropriate remedy.  Upon completion and approval of corrective action or obtaining an approved plan or any 
required permits, the order shall immediately be lifted. Nothing in this section shall prevent the County Manager or 
designee from taking any other permissible action.  
(Ord. No. 92-16, 5-1-92; Ord. No. 94-17, 6-4-94; Ord. No. 08-01, 1-26-08; Ord. No. 14-05, 5-10-14, effective 7-1-
14) 
 
§ 57-10. Administrative Appeal; Judicial Review. 
 
 
Final decisions of the plan approving authority under this chapter shall be subject to review by the 
County  Manager  provided  written  request  for  such  review  is  filed  within  thirty  (30)  days  from  the  date  of  any 
written  decision  by  the  plan  approving  authority  which  adversely  affects  the  rights,  duties,  or  privileges  of  the 
person engaging in or proposing to engage in land-disturbing activities. 
 
 
Final decisions of the County Manager under this chapter shall be subject to review by the Circuit 
Court  of  Arlington  County,  provided  an  appeal  is  filed  within  thirty  (30)  days  from  the  date  of  the  final  written 
decision which adversely affects the rights, duties, or privileges of the person engaging in or proposing to engage in 
land-disturbing activities.  
(6-27-76; 10-23-76; Ord. No. 92-16, 5-1-92; Ord. No. 08-01, 1-26-08) 

A.  

B.  

Code Updated 7-2018 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                           EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL 

A. 

C.  

B.  

The governing body may apply to the Circuit Court of Arlington County for injunctive relief to 

In additional to the civil penalties provided in this chapter, any person who violates any provision 

 
§ 57-11. Penalties, Injunctions, and Other Legal Actions. 
 
 
A civil penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall apply to any person who violates (i) any 
condition  of  a  permit  or  (ii)  any  provisions  of  this  chapter,  except  the  civil  penalty  for  commencement  of  land-
disturbing activities without an approved plan shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each day any violation of 
the provisions of this chapter is found to have existed shall constitute a separate offense. In no event shall a series of 
violations result in civil penalties which exceed a total of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) arising from the same 
operative set of facts, except that a series of violations arising from the commencement of land-disturbing activities 
without an approved plan for any site shall not result in civil penalties which exceed a total of ten thousand dollars 
($10,000.00). The Administrator may issue a summons for the collection of the civil penalty. 
 
  
enjoin a violation or a threatened violation of this chapter. 
 
 
of this chapter may be liable to plan approving authority in a civil action for damages. 
 
 
Without limiting the remedies which may be obtained under this section, any person violating or 
failing, neglecting or refusing to obey any injunction, mandamus or other remedy obtained pursuant to this chapter 
shall be subject, in the discretion of the court, to a civil penalty not to exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for 
each  violation.  A  civil  action  for  such  violation  or  failure  may  be  brought  by  the  County.  Any  civil  penalties 
assessed by a court shall be paid into the treasury of the County. 
 
 
With the consent of any person who has violated or failed, neglected or refused to obey (i) any 
condition of a permit or (ii) any provisions of this chapter, the Administrator may provide, in an order issued against 
such person, for the payment of civil charges for violations in specific sums, not to exceed the limit specified in 
subsection  D  of  this  section.  Such  civil  charges  shall  be  instead  of  any  appropriate  civil  penalty  which  could  be 
imposed under subsection A or D. 
(6-27-76; Ord. No. 92-16, 5-1-92; Ord. No. 94-17, 6-4-94; Ord. No. 98-25, 10-17-99; Ord. No. 01-16, 7-28-01; Ord. 
No. 08-01, 1-26-08; Ord. No. 14-05, 5-10-14, effective 7-1-14) 
 
§ 57-12. Severability.  
 

If  any  provision  of  this  chapter  is  held  to  be  unconstitutional  or  invalid,  such  unconstitutionality  or 

D.  

E.  

invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions.  
(6-27-76; Ord. No. 08-01, 1-26-08) 
 
§ 57-13. Conflict of Chapter.  
 

In  any  case  where  a  provision  of  this chapter  is  found  to  be  in  conflict  with  any  other  provision  of  the 
Arlington  County  Code  existing  on  the  effective  date  of  this  chapter,  the  provision  which  establishes  the  more 
stringent standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail. In any case 
where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any other provision of the Arlington County Code 
existing  on  the  effective  date  of  this  chapter  which  establishes  a  less  stringent  standard  for  the  promotion  and 
protection of the health and safety of the people, the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to prevail, and such 
other provisions are hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this chapter.  
(6-27-76; Ord. No. 08-01, 1-26-08) 

Code Updated 7-2018 

