 

  
 

 

 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

Chapter 59 

 

FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

§ 59-1. Definitions. 
§ 59-2. Authority to Regulate. 
§ 59-3. Regulated Service. 
§ 59-4. License Required, Posting of License. 
§ 59-5. Application for License. 
§ 59-6. Procedures of License. 
§ 59-7. Issuance of the Initial License. 
§ 59-8. Types of Licenses. 
§ 59-9. License Conditions. 
§ 59-10. Requirements for Changes in Operation. 
§ 59-11. Renewal of License. 
§ 59-12. Denial of Application. 
§ 59-13. Suspension of License. 
§ 59-14. Revocation of License. 
§ 59-15. Inspections. 
§ 59-16. Enforcement. 
§ 59-17. Hearing and Appeal Process. 
§ 59-18. Deferred Compliance. 
§ 59-19. Conflict of Chapter. 
§ 59-20. Penalties. 
§ 59-21. Severability. 
§ 59-22. Operational Responsibilities. 
§ 59-23. Capacity. 
§ 59-24. Records and Reports. 
§ 59-25. General Qualifications for Caregivers and Household Members. 
§ 59-26. Caregiver Orientation. 
§ 59-27. Caregiver Training. 
§ 59-28. Caregiver and Household Member Health Requirements. 
§ 59-29. Children’s Health Requirements. 
§ 59-30. Physical Environment. 
§ 59-31. Emergency Provisions. 
§ 59-32. First Aid and Emergency Supplies. 
§ 59-33. Safety. 
§ 59-34. Play Space, Equipment, and Materials. 
§ 59-35. Provider-Owned Outdoor Play Area and Equipment. 
§ 59-36. Health Procedures. 
§ 59-37. Supervision of Children. 
§ 59-38. Staff-to-Child Ratios. 
§ 59-39. General Requirements for Programs. 
§ 59-40. Parental Notification. 
§ 59-41. Behavior Management. 
§ 59-42. Nutrition and Food Services. 
§ 59-43. Infant Feeding. 
§ 59-44. Infant and Toddler Equipment. 
§ 59-45. Cribs, Cots, Rest Mats, and Beds. 
§ 59-46. Linens. 
§ 59-47. Sleeping and Resting Requirements. 

59-1 

Code Updated March 2019 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

§ 59-48. Medication. 
§ 59-49. Topical Skin Products. 
§ 59-50. Smoking and Prohibited Substances. 
§ 59-51. Swimming and Wading Activities. 
§ 59-52. Drowning Hazards. 
§ 59-53. Transportation and Field Trips. 
§ 59-54. Animals and Pets. 
§ 59-55. Nighttime Care. 

 

 

The  following  words  and  terms,  when  used  in  this  chapter,  shall  have  the  following  meanings  unless  the 

§ 59-1. Definitions. 
 
 
context clearly indicates otherwise: 
 
“Accessible” means capable of being entered, reached, or used.  
 
“Adult” means any individual 18 years of age or older.  
 
“Age-appropriate” means suitable to the chronological age and individual needs of a child. 
 
“Assistant” means an individual who helps the provider or substitute provider in the care, protection, supervision, 
education, and guidance to children in the home. 
 
“Attendance” means the actual presence of an enrolled child. 
 
“Body fluids” means urine, feces, vomit, blood, saliva, nasal discharge, and tissue discharge. 
 
“Caregiver” means an individual who provides care, protection, supervision, and guidance to children in the home 
and includes the provider, substitute provider, and assistant. 
 
“Child” means any person under eighteen (18) years of age. 
 
“Child day program” means a regularly operating service arrangement for children where, during the absence of a 
parent or guardian, a person or organization has agreed to assume responsibility for the supervision, protection, well-
being, and education of a child under the age of 13 for less than a 24-hour period. 
 
“Child with special needs” means a child with developmental disabilities, intellectual disabilities, emotional 
disturbance, sensory or motor impairment, or significant chronic illness who requires special health surveillance or 
specialized programs, interventions, technologies, or facilities. 
 
“Cleaned” means treated in such a way as to remove dirt and debris by scrubbing and washing with soap and water 
or detergent solution and rinsing with water. 
 
“Communicable disease” means a disease caused by a microorganism (bacterium, virus, fungus, or parasite) that can 
be transmitted from person to person via an infected body fluid or respiratory spray, with or without an intermediary 
agent (such as a louse, mosquito) or environmental object (such as a table surface).  Some communicable diseases 
are reportable to the local health authority. 
 
“Corrective action plan” means a written plan listing non-compliance that details corrective actions that the licensee 
will take within an established period of time to address violations or actions to prevent the recurrence of violations. 
 
“County  Manager”  means  the  County  Manager  of  Arlington  County  in  his/her  role  as  the  local  board  of  public 
welfare or any of his/her designees acting in his/her role as the local board of public welfare. 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-2 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

“Department” means the Arlington County Department of Human Services. 
 
“Department's representative” means an employee or designee of the Arlington County Department of Human 
Services, acting as the authorized agent of the County Manager. 
 
“Evacuation” means movement of occupants out of the building to a safe area near the building. 
 
“Family day care home” means a child day program offered in the residence of the provider for one (1) through 12 
children  under  the  age  of  13,  exclusive  of  the  provider’s  own  children  and  any  children  who  reside  in  the  home, 
when at least one (1) child receives care for compensation.  A family day care home where the children in care are 
all related to the provider by blood, adoption, or marriage shall not be required to be licensed. 
 
“Good character and reputation” means knowledgeable and objective people agree that the individual (i) maintains 
business, professional, family, and community relationships that are characterized by honesty, fairness, and 
truthfulness; and (ii) demonstrates a concern for the well-being of others to the extent that the individual is 
considered suitable to be entrusted with the care, guidance, and protection of children. Relatives by blood or 
marriage, and people who are not knowledgeable of the individual, such as recent acquaintances, shall not be 
considered objective references. 
 
“Homeless child” means a child who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence and who is: 

 
1. Living in a car, park, public space, abandoned building, substandard housing, bus or train station, or 
similar setting; 

2. Sharing the housing of other persons due to loss of housing, economic hardship, or a similar reason; 
sometimes referred to as doubled-up; 

3. Living in motels, hotels, or camping grounds due to lack of alternative adequate accommodations; 

4. Living in congregate, temporary, emergency, or transitional shelters; 

5. Awaiting or in foster care placement; 

6. Abandoned in a hospital; 

7. A migratory child who qualifies as homeless because he/she is living in circumstances described in the 
federal Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, P.L. 89-10 (20 USC § 6399); and 

8. Living in a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily 
used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings. 

“Inaccessible" means not capable of being entered, reached, or used. 

 

“Infant” means a child from birth through 23 months of age. 
 
"Lockdown" means a situation where children are isolated from a security threat and access within and to the home 
is restricted. 

“Nighttime care” means care provided between 7 p.m. and 6 a.m. 
 
“Parent” means the biological, foster or adoptive parent, legal guardian, or any individual with responsibility for, 
or custody of, a child enrolled in or in the process of being enrolled in a family day care home. 
 
“Physician” means an individual licensed to practice medicine in any of the 50 states or the District of Columbia. 
 
“Preschool” means children from three (3) years up to the age of eligibility to attend public school, age five (5) by 
September 30 of that same year. 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-3 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 
“Programmatic experience” means time spent working directly with children in a group that is located away from 
the child's home. Work time shall be computed on t h e  basis o f  full-time work experience during the period 
prescribed or equivalent  work  time  over  a  longer  period.  Experience  settings  may  include a  child  day  program, 
family  day  c a r e   home,  child  day  center,  boys and girls club, field placement, elementary school, or a faith-based 
organization. 
 
“Provider” means an individual who is issued the family day care home license by the Department of Human 
Services and who has primary responsibility in providing care, protection, supervision, education, and guidance of 
children in the family day care home. 
 

“Relocation” means movement of occupants of the building to a safe location away from the vicinity of the 
building. 
 
“Residence” means principal legal dwelling or abode that is occupied for living purposes by the provider and 
contains the facilities necessary for sleeping, eating, cooking, and family living. 
 
“Sanitized”  means  treated  in  such  a  way  as  to  remove  bacteria  and  viruses from inanimate surfaces through 
first cleaning and secondly using a solution of one tablespoon of bleach mixed with one gallon of water and 
prepared fresh daily or using a sanitizing solution approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.   The 
surface of the item is sprayed or dipped into the sanitizing solution and then allowed to air dry for a minimum of two 
(2) minutes or according to the sanitizing solution instructions. 

 

“School age” means eligible to attend public school, age five (5) or older by September 30 of that same year. 

 

“Serious injury” means a wound or other specific damage to the body that requires medical attention beyond basic 
first aid, such as unconsciousness; broken bones; dislocation; deep cut requiring stitches; poisoning; concussion; 
and a foreign object lodged in eye, nose, ear, or other body orifice. 

 

“Shaken baby syndrome” or “abusive head trauma” means a traumatic injury that is inflicted upon the brain of an 
infant or young child.  The injury can occur during violent shaking, causing the child’s head to whip back and 
forth, the brain to move about, and blood vessels in the skull to stretch and tear. 
 
“Shelter-in-place” means movement of occupants of the building to designated protected spaces within the building. 
 
“Staff” means administrative, activity, and service personnel including the licensee when the licensee is an 
individual who works in the family day care home, and any persons counted in the staff-to-child ratios or any 
persons working with a child without sight and sound supervision of a staff member. 
 
“Substitute provider” means an individual who meets the qualifications of a provider; is designated by the 
provider; and who provides care, protection, supervision, education, and guidance for children in the family day 
care home when the provider is absent from the home for more than two hours. 

 

“Time out” means a discipline technique in which a child is moved for a brief time away from the stimulation and 
reinforcement of ongoing activities and other children in the group to allow the child who is losing self-control to 
regain composure. 
 
“Toddler” means a child who is two (2) years-old. 
 
“Violation” means a breach or infraction of a licensing law or rule. Violation is sometimes referred to as 
noncompliance. 
 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-4 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

§ 59-2. Authority to Regulate. 
 

A.  It is hereby declared to be the policy of the County of Arlington to protect the public health, safety and 

general welfare by providing for the licensing and regulation of family day care homes in order to 
adequately protect the children of Arlington County. To do so, the County adopts the following regulations 
to safeguard the children and families in the County of Arlington pursuant to its authority under Section 
15.2-741 of the Code of Virginia.    
 

B.  Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to contradict or negate any provisions of the Arlington County 

Code or the Code of Virginia which may apply to family day care homes. 
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-3. Regulated Service. 
 

A.  All family day care homes in Arlington County are subject to the regulations of this chapter. 

 

B.  The County of Arlington has the right to inspect, monitor, and enforce the regulations of this chapter. 

 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-4. License Required, Posting of License.  
 

It shall be unlawful to operate a family day care home as defined herein in which more one (1) through 12 
children are received, without a valid license issued pursuant to this chapter. Such license shall be posted in a visible 
location within the licensed premises where it can be easily seen by parents and other visitors of the home. 
 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-5. Application for License. 
 

A.  Any person who intends to operate or maintain a family day care home for one (1) through 12 children and 
any  person  who  operates  or  maintains  a  family  day  care  home  for  one  (1)  through  12  children  on  the 
effective  date  of  this  chapter  must  submit  an  application  (on  forms  provided  by  the  Department)  to  the 
Department  for  a  license  in  the  name  of  the  person  for  the  specified  structure  to  which  the  application 
relates. The application must identify the owner with responsibility for and authority over the operation of 
the family day care home.  No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable. 

 

B.  Any person who intends to provide a family day care home in which one (1) through 12 children are to be 
received  shall  file  an  application  for  a  license  at  least  two  (2)  months  in  advance  of  the  planned  opening 
date. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-6. Procedures for License.  
 

A.  Upon  receipt  of  the  application,  the  Department  will  begin  an  inquiry  into  the  activities,  services  and 

facilities of the applicant, and of the applicant’s character and reputation.  
 

B.  The  applicant  must  afford  the  representative  of  the  Department  to  make  a  pre-licensing  inspection  of  the 
facilities  and  to  interview  the  applicant  and  his/her  agents,  household  members,  and  employees  for  the 
purpose of determining whether the applicant can proceed through the licensing process. 
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-5 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 
§ 59-7. Issuance of the Initial License. 
 

Upon  completion  of  the  inspection,  the  County  Manager  shall  grant  a  license  in  writing  to  any  applicant 
thereof  upon  production  of  evidence  satisfactory  to  him/her  that  the  applicant,  his/her  facilities,  services  and 
activities are in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Arlington County Code, the Code of Virginia and 
the standards and policies prescribed hereunder. 

 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-8. Types of Licenses. 
 

A.  Conditional license: A license issued to a new family day care home to allow for the licensee to demonstrate 

compliance with sections of the regulations which could not be determined during the initial inspection. 
 

1.  The conditional license will be issued for a period of six (6) months to allow time for all requirements 

2. 

3. 

to be met, including staffing, training, and record-keeping.  
 
If at the end of the six (6) month conditional period, the licensee is in full compliance with the 
regulations of this chapter, a regular license will be issued. 
 
If at the end of the six (6) month conditional period, the licensee is not in full compliance with the 
regulations of this chapter, a regular license will not be issued and the licensee will be notified in 
writing. 
 

B.  Regular license: A license issued to a family day care home whose program, facilities, and operations fully 

comply with regulations of this chapter. 
 

1.  A regular license will be issued for a period of one (1) year. 

 

C.  Provisional license: A license issued to an operating family day care home at the time of renewal, when the 

licensee is temporarily unable to comply with the regulations of this chapter.  There cannot be any serious 
risk to the health, safety and well-being of children, and the licensee must agree to operate under conditions 
as stated in a correction action plan. 
 
1.  The provisional license will be issued for a period of up to six (6) months.  An extension beyond this 

2. 

3. 

time period requires Department approval. 
 
If, at the end of the six (6) month provisional period, the licensee is in full compliance with the 
regulations of this chapter, a regular license will be issued. 
 
If, at the end of the six (6) month provisional period, the licensee is not in full compliance with the 
regulations of this chapter and an extension is not granted, a regular license will not be issued and the 
licensee will be notified in writing. 
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-6 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

§ 59-9. License Conditions.  
 

Each  license  issued  pursuant  to  this  chapter  shall  set  forth  the  conditions  under  which  the  license  may 
operate.  Said  conditions  shall  include,  but  not  be  limited  to,  the  name(s)  of  the  operator(s)  of  the  family  day  care 
home, the maximum number and age range of children to be served, and the period of time for which the license is 
effective.  Each  provisional  or  conditional  license  issued  pursuant  to  this  chapter  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  letter 
from the County Manager or his/her designee stating the reason(s) for its being provisional or conditional. 

 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-10. Requirements for Changes in Operation. 
 
A.  The licensee shall inform the Department, in writing, of any of the following changes in operation no less than 

10 days before implementation of the change(s): 
 

1.  A change in location, name, and/or telephone number of the family day care home; 

 

2.  An extended absence of the provider from the family day care home that exceeds two (2) weeks; or 

 

3.  Renovations or alterations of the premises that substantially changes the indoor or outdoor space of the 

family day care home. 
 

B.  The licensee shall submit a written request to the Department to modify conditions of the license to include: 

 

1.  Change in hours of operation; 

 

2.  Change in license capacity; 

 

3.  Change in age range of children; or 

 

4.  Any other condition to be modified. 

 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-11. Renewal of License.  
 
A.  Every regular license shall be renewed annually prior to the expiration of the license.  

 

B.  Licensees desiring renewal must notify the Department prior to the license expiration. The facilities and records 

of each applicant for a renewal of a license may be inspected or examined by the Department to determine 
whether the applicant is in compliance with this chapter, the Arlington County Code, and the Code of Virginia.  
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-12. Denial of Application. 
 
A. 

The Department may deny an application for a new or renewed license if: 
 
1.  The activities, services and facilities of the applicant are in violation of any provision of this chapter, 

the Arlington County Code, or the Code of Virginia;  
 

2.  An evaluation of the application reveals that the applicant misrepresented or reported false 

information; 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-7 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

3.  An evaluation of background checks indicates that any staff member or adult household member has 

been charged or found guilty of a barrier crime as defined in the Code of Virginia or is the subject of a 
founded complaint of child abuse or neglect; 
 

4.  The applicant has a history of regulatory violations which demonstrates an inability to provide for the 

health, safety and welfare of children; or 
 

5.  The Department concludes  that the applicant cannot provide for the  health, safety and  welfare of the 
children  in  care  based  on  other  pertinent  information  received  by  the  Department  which  creates 
reasonable doubt as to the applicant’s ability to provide care to children. 

Upon  the  denial  of  the  application  for  a  new  or  renewed  license  under  this  chapter,  the  Department  shall 
notify the applicant that the application is denied, stating: 

1.  The reason(s) for the denial; 

 

2.  The regulatory standard(s) with which the applicant failed to comply that is the basis for the denial; 

 
B. 

 

and 
 

3.  The applicant has the right to appeal the denial in accordance with the appeals process as established in 

§ 59-17. 
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-13. Suspension of License. 
 
A. 

The Department may suspend a license upon determining that: 
 
1.  The licensee is in violation of any provision of this chapter, the Arlington County Code, or the Code of 

Virginia; or 
 

2.  The life, health, safety, or welfare of children is in imminent danger. 

 

B. 

Upon the suspension of the license, the Department shall notify the licensee in writing of the suspension, 
stating: 
 
1.  The effective date and period of the suspension; 

 

2.  Reason(s) for the suspension;  

 

3.  The regulatory violation(s) which is the basis for the suspension;  

 

4.  That the licensee must stop providing care on the effective date of the suspension; and 

 

5.  The licensee’s right to appeal the suspension in accordance with the appeals process as established in § 

59-17. 
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
 
 
 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-8 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

§ 59-14. Revocation of License.  
 
A.  The Department may revoke a license upon determining that: 

 

1.  The licensee is in violation of any provision of this chapter, the Arlington County Code, or the 

Code of Virginia; 
 

2.  The life, health, safety, and welfare of children is in imminent danger; 

 

3.  The licensee misrepresented or offered false information on any form or report required by the 

Department;  
 

4.  The terms or conditions of an intermediate sanction have been violated; or 

 

5.  Violations required to be corrected during a suspension have not been corrected at the end of the 

suspension period. 
 

B.  Upon the revocation of the license, the Department shall notify the licensee in writing of the revocation, stating: 

 

1.  The effective date and period of the revocation; 

 

2.  Reason(s) for the revocation;  

 

3.  The regulatory violation(s) which is the basis for the revocation;  

 

4.  That the licensee must stop providing care on the effective date of the revocation; and 

 

5.  The licensee’s right to appeal the revocation in accordance with the appeals process as established 

in § 59-17. 
 

C.  An applicant may reapply for a license after six (6) months from the date of revocation. 

 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-15. Inspections. 
 
A.  Family day care homes will be inspected for initial licensing, renewal purposes, routine monitoring and when 

complaints/allegations are made against the home. It is the duty of every licensee to give the right of entrance to 
and inspection of the premises to representatives of the Department, to keep and maintain such records as the 
Department may prescribe, to permit inspection to these records, and to report to the Department such facts as 
may be required. 
 

B.  The Department may conduct a follow-up inspection any time a family day care home is cited for any violation. 

 

C.  Family day care home inspections will be conducted in an unannounced manner. 

 

D.  A report of inspection findings will be provided to the family day care home following the completion of any 

inspection. 
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-9 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

§ 59-16. Enforcement. 
 
A.  If an inspection or investigation reveals a violation of any provision of this chapter, the Arlington County Code, 

or the Code of Virginia, the Department may undertake enforcement actions. 
 

B.  Enforcement actions may include, but are not limited to: 

 

1. 

Issuance of written inspection reports which include corrective action plans, requests to submit a 
corrective action plan to the Department, and notices of intention to initiate enforcement through the 
denial, suspension, or revocation of a license; 
 

2.  Meetings or telephone conferences between the Department and the licensee to discuss corrective 

3. 

action plans; 
 
Intermediate sanctions such as: 
 

a. Reduction of capacity; 

 

b. Prohibition on new admissions; 

 

c. Mandated training; 

 

d. Requiring the licensee to contact parents/guardians about health and safety violations; 

 

4.  Denial of application for a new or renewed license; 

 

5.  Suspension of a license 

 

a. A license may be temporarily suspended without a hearing upon written notification to the 
licensee by the Department upon finding that the public life, health, safety or welfare of a 
child is in imminent danger; or 
 

6.  Revocation of a license. 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-17. Hearing and Appeal Process. 
 
A.  A hearing shall be held when the licensee requests a hearing to contest: 

 

1.  The denial of an application for a new or renewed license; 

 

2.  A suspension or revocation of a license; or 

 

3.  Any other action that adversely impacts the licensee. 

 

B.  All hearing requests shall be submitted in writing to the County Manager or his/her designee and shall state the 

name and address of the licensee and the effective date and nature of the action being appealed. 
 

C.  The written hearing request shall be submitted to the County Manager or his/her designee within five (5) 

business days of receipt of written notice of enforcement action. 
 

59-10 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

D.  The County Manager or his/her designee shall notify the appellant of the time, date, and place of the hearing 

within five (5) business days of receipt of the written hearing request.  The County Manager or his/her designee 
will meet with the appellant at a mutually agreeable time.  Meeting attendees may include: 
 

1.  Representatives of Arlington County Government; 

 

2.  Witnesses for both parties. Witnesses will be present only while providing testimony; or 

 

3.  Legal counsel.   

 

a.  If legal counsel represents the licensee, legal counsel must also represent Arlington County 

Government. 
 

b.  If legal counsel will be in attendance, the licensee shall notify the County Manager or his/her 

designee at least three (3) business days prior to the hearing. 
 

E.  The County Manager or his/her designee shall render a hearing decision to the licensee within five (5) business 

days from the date of the hearing.  The decision will either uphold or overturn the adverse action. 
 

1.  The decision of the County Manager or his/her designee is final and subject to no further appeal. 

 

F.  Any step in the appeal process may be waived if mutually agreed upon by the appellant and the County 

Manager or his/her designee. 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-18. Deferred Compliance.  
 

The owner or operators of any facility required to be licensed by this chapter, operating in the County as of 
the effective date of this chapter, may apply for and be granted a time period not to exceed six (6) months in order to 
comply  with  the  licensing  requirement  prescribed  hereunder  which  were  not  in  effect  on  the  date  of  enactment  or 
this chapter. All other provisions of this chapter become effective upon the effective date of this chapter. 

 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-19. Conflict of Chapter.  

 
The provisions of this chapter are meant to complement and be read in harmony with all other provisions of 
the Arlington County Code.  In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any other 
provision  of  the  Arlington  County  Code  existing  on  the  effective  date  of  this  chapter,  the  provision  which 
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail.  
It  shall  not  be  considered  a  conflict  if  the  provider  needs  to  comply  with  other  requirements  in  order  to  obtain 
permits, licenses, or certificates other than a child care license from Arlington County Government, such as but not 
limited  to:  building  permits,  sign  permits,  certificates  of  occupancy,  use  permits,  business,  professional  and 
occupational licenses, etc. 

 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-20. Penalties.  
 

Any person who operates a family day care home in which one (1) through 12 children are received 
without a valid license issued pursuant to this chapter after receipt of notice from the County Manager that a 
violation of this chapter exists without having corrected such violation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-11 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

Should any clause, sentence, paragraph or part of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or 

conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $300.00, or by imprisonment in jail not to exceed 30 
days, or both. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense. 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-21. Severability.  
 
 
circumstance be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall 
not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of the chapter or the application of such provisions to other persons or 
circumstances, but shall be confined in its application to the clause, sentence, paragraph or part thereof, directly 
involved in the controversy in which said judgment shall have been rendered, and the person or circumstance 
involved. 
 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-22. Operational Responsibilities. 

 

A.  The provider shall ensure compliance with this chapter and the terms of the  current  license  issued  by  the 

Department  and  with  relevant  federal,  state  or local laws, and other relevant regulations. 

 

B.  The provider shall ensure compliance with the home's policies that have been disclosed to the parents. 
 
C.  The provider shall be of good character and reputation. Character and reputation investigation includes 

documentation of completion of required background checks, including: 

 
1.  A satisfactory sworn statement or affirmation prior to the first day of employment; 

 

2.  A satisfactory national criminal background check prior to employment; and 

 

3.  A satisfactory central registry search within 30 days of employment. 

 
D.  The provider shall submit documentation of satisfactory background checks for all caregivers and household 

members residing in the family day care home, as required by § 59-25.A.1 and § 59-25.D.  
 

E.  The provider shall ensure that the home's activities, services, and facilities are conducive to the welfare of 

children in care. 

 

F.  The provider shall be responsible for the family day care home's day-to-day operation. 

 

G.  The provider shall post, with parental approval, a current list of all children’s allergies, sensitivities, and dietary 

restrictions. 

 

H.  The provider shall ensure that any advertising is not misleading or deceptive as required by § 63.2-1713 of the 

Code of Virginia. 

 
I.  The provider shall ensure that the total number of children receiving care at any one time does not exceed the 

maximum licensed capacity of the family day care home. 

 
J.  The provider shall establish and follow written procedures for prevention of shaken baby syndrome or 

abusive head trauma, including coping with crying babies, safe sleeping practices, and sudden infant 

death syndrome awareness. 

 

 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-12 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

K.  The provider shall establish and follow a written plan for behavior management that will include how caregivers 

will address challenging behaviors. 
 

L.  The provider shall establish and follow a written emergency preparedness and response plan that: 

 
1. 

Includes emergency evacuation, emergency relocation, shelter-in-place, and lockdown procedures; 
 

2.  Addresses the most likely to occur scenarios, including fire, severe storms, flooding, tornadoes, loss of 
utilities, earthquakes, intruders, violence on or near the premises, chemical spills, and facility damage 
and other situations that may require evacuation, shelter-in-place, or lockdown; and 

 

3. 

Includes provisions for a responsible person who is 18 years of age or older and is able to provide 
emergency backup care until the children can be picked up by their parents. 

 
M.  The provider shall establish and follow written medication procedures that shall: 

 

1. 

Include any general restrictions for the administration of medication; 
 

2.  For nonprescription medication, be consistent with the manufacturer’s instructions for age, duration 

and dosage; 
 
Include duration of the parent’s authorization for medication, provided that it shall expire or be 
renewed after 10 work days.  Long-term prescription and over-the-counter medication may be allowed 
with written authorization from the child’s physician and parent; and 
 
Include methods to prevent the use of outdated medication. 
 

3. 

4. 

N.  The provider shall have liability and fire insurance of at least $100,000 per occurrence and $300,000 aggregate 

in force on the family day care home operation to protect themselves and the children served.  A copy of the 
insurance policy shall be made available to the County Manager or his/her designee upon request. 
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-23. Capacity. 
 
A.  When at least one (1) child receives care for compensation, all children, exclusive of the provider's own children 

and children who reside in the home, who are in the care and supervision of a provider, count in the licensed 
capacity. 
 

B.  The Department will establish the family day care home’s maximum capacity based on the following factors: 

 
1.  The availability of space that allows each child free movement and active play indoors and outdoors; 

or 

 

2.  The provider’s responsibility to care for another individual who may require special attention or care, 

including but not limited to an elderly resident or a child with a serious physical, emotional, or 
behavioral condition. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
 
 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-13 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

§ 59-24. Records and Reports. 
 
A.  General Recordkeeping. 

 

 

1.  Each provider shall meet the following recordkeeping requirements: 

a.  Records required by this regulation may be kept as hard copy or electronically and shall be 

maintained in the family day care home and made accessible to the Department’s 
representative. 

 
b.  The provider shall maintain a written record of daily attendance that documents the arrival 

and departure of each child in care as it occurs. 

 
c. 

Information contained in a child’s record shall be privileged and confidential. The provider 
shall not distribute or release information in a child’s record to any unauthorized person 
without the written consent of the child’s parent. 

 
d.  Children’s records shall be made available to a child’s parent upon request, unless otherwise 

ordered by the court. 

 
e.  Records and reports on children, caregivers, and household members required by this chapter 
shall be maintained and made accessible to the Department’s representative for two (2) years 
from the date of termination of services for a child, date of separation from employment for 
caregivers, or date of termination of residence for a household member, unless specified 
otherwise. 

 

B.  Reports to the Department. 

 

1.  The provider shall inform the Department’s representative as soon as possible but not to exceed one (1) 

business day of the circumstances surrounding the following incidents: 
 

a.  Lost or missing child when local authorities have been contacted for help; 

 

 

b.  Death of a child while under the family day care home’s supervision; and 

c.  The suspension or termination of all child care services for more than 24 hours as a result of 

any emergency situation and any plans to resume child care. 

 
2.  The provider shall inform the Department’s representative as soon as practicable, but not to exceed two 

(2) business days, of any serious injury to a child while under the family day care home’s supervision. 
 

3.  A written report shall be completed and submitted to the Department within five (5) business days of 

the date the incident occurred. 
 

C.  Reports of Suspected Child Abuse or Neglect. 

 

A caregiver shall immediately call the Department (703-228-1500) or call the toll-free number of the Child 
Abuse and Neglect hotline (1-800-552-7096/TDD) whenever there is reason to suspect that a child has been 
or is being subjected to any kind of child abuse or neglect by any person. 

 
D.  Reports of Suspected Disease Outbreaks. 

 

The provider shall immediately make or cause to be made a report of an outbreak of disease as defined by 
the Virginia Board of Health.  Such report shall be made by rapid means to the local health department 
(703-228-5266) or to the Commissioner of the Virginia Department of Health. 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-14 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

E.  Children’s Records. 

 

1.  The provider shall maintain an up-to-date record at the family day care home for each enrolled child. 

 

2.  A child’s record shall contain the following information: 

 

a.  Name, sex, address, and birth date of the child; 

 

b.  Emergency care information including: 

 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

viii. 

ix. 

x. 

Name, home address, and telephone number of each parent who has custody; 

 

Name, address, and telephone number of each custodial parent’s place of 
employment; 
 
Name and telephone number of the child’s physician; 
 
Name, address, and telephone number of two (2) designated people to contact in case 
of an emergency if the parent cannot be reached; 
 
Information on allergies and intolerance to medication, or any other substances, and 
actions to take in an emergency situation; 
 
A written care plan for each child with a diagnosed food allergy, to include 
instructions from a physician regarding the food to which the child is allergic and the 
steps to be taken in the event of a suspected or confirmed allergic reaction; 
 
Name and policy number of the child’s medical insurance, if applicable; 
 
Names of persons other than the custodial parents who are authorized to pick up the 
child; 
 
Appropriate legal paperwork when a custodial parent does not authorize the provider 
to release the child to the non-custodial parent; and 
 
Chronic physical problems, pertinent development information, and any special 
accommodations needed; 

c.  First and last dates of attendance; 

 

d.  Parent’s signed acknowledgment of the receipt of required written information for parents; 

e.  Proof of the child’s age and identity and the names and addresses of previously attended child 

day care and schools; 

f.  Written authorization for emergency medical care should an emergency occur and the parent 
cannot be located immediately unless the parent presents a written objection to provision of 
medical treatment on religious or other grounds; 

g.  Written authorization if a caregiver is to administer prescription or nonprescription 

medication to the child; 

h.  Written authorization if the child is to participate in swimming or wading activities; 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-15 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

i.  Written authorization if the child is taken off the premises of the family day care home; 

j.  Special instructions to the provider including exception to an infant’s sleeping position, 

recommendations for the care and activities of a child with special needs, and exception to an 
infant’s being fed on demand; 

k.  Record of any accidents or injuries sustained by the child while at the family day care home; 

l.  Documentation of the review of the child’s emergency contact information; 

m.  Immunization records for the child; and 

n.  Results of the health examination for the child. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F.  Caregiver Records. 

 

1.  The provider shall maintain a record for each caregiver. 

 

2.  Assistants’ and substitute providers’ records shall contain the following: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.  Name; 

 

b.  Address; 

c.  Verification of age; 

d.  Job title; 

e.  Date of employment or volunteering; 

f.  Name, address, and telephone number of a person to be notified in an emergency; 

g.  For assistants and substitute providers who are not the spouse, parent, sibling, or child of the 
provider and are hired after July 1, 2019, documentation that two (2) or more references as to 
character and reputation as well as competency were checked before employment.  If a 
reference check is taken over the telephone, documentation shall include: 

i. 

ii. 

Dates of contact, 
 
Names of persons contacted, 

iii. 

Firms contacted, 

iv. 

Results, and 

v. 

Signature of person making call; 

 
h.  Documentation of satisfactory background checks; 

 

i.  Documentation of tuberculosis screening; and 

j.  Documentation of the education and training. 

 
3.  Substitute providers’ records shall also contain documentation of the time of arrivals and departures; 

 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-16 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

4.  Providers’ records shall contain the following:  
 

a.  Documentation of satisfactory background checks; 

 

b.  Documentation of tuberculosis screening; and 

 

 

c.  Documentation of the education and training. 

G.  Written Information for Parents. 

 

1.  The provider shall provide parents with the following written information prior to the child’s first day of 

attendance. The provider shall obtain the parent’s written acknowledgement of the receipt of the 
information in this section. 

 

 

a.  Operating information including the hours and days of operation, holidays or other times 

closed, and the telephone number where a message can be left for a caregiver; 

b.  Schedule of fees and payment plans; 

c.  Check in and check out procedures; 

d.  Policies for the administration of medications; 

e.  Requirement for the family day care home to notify the parent when the child becomes ill and 
for the parent to arrange to have the child picked up as soon as possible if so requested by the 
family day care home; 

f.  Requirement for the parent to inform the family day care home within 24 hours or the next 

business day after his/her child or any member of the immediate household has developed any 
reportable communicable disease, as defined by the State Board of Health, except for life-
threatening diseases, which must be reported immediately; 

g.  Requirement for the child to be adequately immunized; 

h.  Requirement for paid caregivers to report suspected child abuse or neglect according to § 

63.2-1509 of the Code of the Virginia;  

i.  Custodial parent’s right to be admitted to the family day care home any time the child is in 

care as required by § 63.2-1813 of the Code of the Virginia;  

j.  Policies for the provision of food; 

k.  Presence of a pet or animal in the home; 

l.  Discipline policies including acceptable and unacceptable discipline measures; 

m.  Amount of time per week that an adult assistant or substitute provider instead of the provider 

is scheduled to care for the child and the name of the adult assistant or substitute provider; 

n.  Provisions of the family day care home’s emergency preparedness and response plan; 

o.  Parental notifications required in § 59-40; 

p.  Policies for termination of care; and 

59-17 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

q.  Address of the website of the Department, with a note that a copy of this chapter and 

additional information about the family day care home may be obtained from the 
Department’s website. 
 

H.  Verification of Child’s Age and Identity. 

 

1.  The provider shall verify and document each child’s age, identity, and previous child care/school 

attendance within seven (7) business days of the child’s first day of attendance at the family day care 
home.   
 

a.  The provider shall verify the identity and age of a child by viewing one of the following: 

 

i. 

ii. 

Certified birth certificate; 
 
Birth registration card; 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii. 

Notification of birth, i.e., hospital, physician, or midwife record; 

iv. 

Passport; 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

Copy of the placement agreement or other proof of the child’s identity from a child 
placing agency; 

Original or copy of a record or report card from a public school in Virginia; 

Signed statement on letterhead stationery from a public-school principal or other 
designated official that assures the child is or was enrolled in the school; or 

viii. 

Child identification card issued by the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles. 

b.  The provider shall document in the child’s record: 

 

i. 

ii. 

The method of verification of the child’s age and identity; and 
 
The names and locations of the previous child care programs and schools the child 
has attended. 

c.  The proof of identity, if reproduced or retained by the provider, shall be destroyed two (2) 

years after termination of services to the child. All reasonable steps to destroy such documents 
shall be made, such as by: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Shredding; 
 
Erasing; or 

Otherwise modifying the social security numbers in those records to make them 
unreadable or indecipherable by any means. 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-18 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

§ 59-25. General Qualifications for Caregivers and Household Members. 
 
A.  Caregiver Qualifications. 

Caregivers shall: 

 

1. 

 
Meet the requirements of a satisfactory background check, including a satisfactory sworn 
statement or affirmation prior to employment, a satisfactory central registry search within 30 days 
of employment, and a satisfactory national criminal background check prior to employment.  All 
required background checks for caregivers must be updated every five (5) years. 
 
a.  A satisfactory sworn statement or affirmation is: 

 

i.  A fully completed original that states that the individual does not have an offense; 

and 
 

ii.  There is no other knowledge that the individual has an unsatisfactory background; 

 

b.  A satisfactory central registry search is one in which: 

i.  A copy of the child protective services check form is returned indicating that, as of 

the date on the reply, the individual whose name was searched is not identified in 
the central registry as an involved caregiver with a founded disposition of child 
abuse/neglect; and 
 

ii.  There is no other knowledge that the individual has a founded disposition in 

Virginia or in any other state in which the individual has resided in the last five (5) 
years; 
 

c.  A satisfactory national criminal background check is one in which: 

 

i.  A letter is received from the Office of Background Investigations with a finding of 

"eligible"; and 
 

ii.  There is no other knowledge that the individual has an offense in Virginia or 

elsewhere; 
 

Be of good character and reputation; 

Be physically and mentally capable of carrying out assigned responsibilities; 

Have an understanding of the problems of childhood and sympathy for them; 

Be able to give the child the affection and security that the child needs. The provider’s motivation 
in taking a child shall include a desire to contribute to the child’s development and not be limited 
to meeting the provider’s own needs; 

Be able to communicate in English as necessary to: 
 
a.  Carry out assigned job responsibilities, and 
b.  Communicate effectively with emergency responders; 

Have current certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) as appropriate to the age of the 
children in care from an organization such as the American Red Cross, American Heart 
Association, American Safety and Health Institute, or National Safety Council. The training shall 

59-19 

 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 
7. 

 

 

 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

8. 

 
9. 

include an in-person competency demonstration. 

Have current certification in first aid from an organization such as the American Red Cross, 
American Heart Association, American Safety and Health Institute, or National Safety Council, 
unless a caregiver is a registered nurse or licensed practical nurse with a current license from the 
Board of Nursing; and 

Caregivers who drive a vehicle transporting children shall submit a current driving record that 
discloses any moving traffic violation that occurred five (5) years prior to or during employment or 
assignment as a driver. 

 

 
B.  Provider and Substitute Provider Qualifications. 
 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 

 

Providers and substitute providers shall be 18 years of age or older. 

Providers licensed after and substitute providers employed after July 1, 2019 shall have three (3) 
months of programmatic experience. 

Use of a substitute provider shall be limited to no more than a total of 240 hours per calendar year. 

A substitute provider shall record and sign the time of arrivals and departures on each day that the 
substitute provider works. 

 
C.  Assistant Qualifications. 
 

 

1. 

2. 

 
3. 

Assistants shall be 18 years of age or older. 

An assistant 18 years of age or older shall not be left alone with children in care for more than two 
(2) hours per day. 

An assistant 18 years of age or older who meets the requirements for a substitute provider may act 
as the substitute provider when the provider is absent from the home for more than two (2) hours. 

 
D.  Household Member Qualifications. 
 

1. 
 

Individuals 14 years of age and older who reside in the family day care home shall:  

a.  Meet the requirements of a satisfactory central registry search, as defined in § 59-25.A.1.b; 

and 
 

b.  Be of good character and reputation. 
 

2. 

In addition to meeting the requirements in § 59-25.D.1, individuals 18 years of age and older who reside in 
the family day care home shall also: 
 

a.  Meet the requirements of a satisfactory sworn statement or affirmation, as defined in § 59-

25.A.1.a; and 
 

b.  Meet the requirements of a satisfactory national criminal background check, as defined in § 

59-25.A.1.c. 
 

3.  Household members’ background checks must be conducted every (5) five years. 

 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-20 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

4.  When a minor who resides in the family day care home turns 18 years of age, the provider is responsible 
for making sure that the 18-year-old complies with all background check requirements for individuals 18 
years of age and older within 30 days of turning 18.  
  

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-26. Caregiver Orientation. 
 
A.  Caregivers shall complete orientation training in areas relevant to their job responsibilities. 

 

B.  Orientation shall be completed within 90 business days of employment. 

 

C.  Orientation shall include all topics within this section. 

 

D.  The provider shall orient the substitute provider and assistants on the following topics prior to working alone 

with children and within seven (7) days of the date of hire: 

 
1.  Job responsibilities; 

 

2.  Requirements for parental notifications listed in § 59-40; 
 
3.  Standards in this chapter that relate to the substitute provider’s or assistant’s responsibilities; 
 
4.  Location of emergency numbers, first aid kit, and emergency supplies; 
 
5.  Confidential treatment of information about children in care and their families; 
 
6.  Recognizing child abuse and neglect and the legal requirements for reporting suspected child abuse as 

required by § 63.2-1509 of the Code of Virginia; 

 
7.  The provider's policies and procedures on the administration of medication; 
 
8.  Emergency preparedness and response planning for emergencies resulting from a natural disaster, or a 

human-caused event such as violence at a family day care home and the home's specific emergency 
preparedness plan; 

 
9.  Prevention and control of infectious diseases; 
 
10.  Prevention of sudden infant death syndrome and use of safe sleep practices; and 
 
11.  Prevention of shaken baby syndrome and abusive head trauma including procedures to cope with 

crying babies or distraught children. 

 

E.  The provider shall orient the substitute provider and assistant by the end of the first 30 days of assuming job 

responsibilities on the following topics: 

 

1.  Child development including physical, cognitive, social, and emotional development; behavior 

management; and positive guidance techniques; 

 

2.  Prevention of and response to emergencies due to food and other allergic reactions including: 
 

a.  Recognizing the symptoms of an allergic reaction; 

b.  Responding to allergic reactions; 

 

 

59-21 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

c.  Preventing exposure to the specific food and other substances to which the child is allergic; and 

 

d.  Preventing cross-contamination. 

 
3.  Building and physical premises safety, including identification of and protection from hazards that can 

cause bodily injury such as electrical hazards, bodies of water, and vehicular traffic; 

4.  Handling and storage of hazardous materials and the appropriate disposal of diapers and other items 

 

contaminated by body fluids; and 

 
5.  Precautions in transporting children, if applicable. 

 

F.  Documentation of the orientation shall be signed and dated by the provider and substitute provider or by the 

provider and assistant. 
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-27. Caregiver Training. 
 

A.  Caregivers shall complete a minimum of eight (8) hours of training annually. 

 

1.  Effective July 1, 2020, caregivers shall complete a minimum of 12 hours of training annually. 

 

2.  Effective July 1, 2021, caregivers shall complete a minimum of 16 hours of training annually. 

B.  Annual training shall include topics relevant to the caregiver's job responsibilities and the care of children, 

 

such as: 
 

1.  Child development including physical, cognitive, social, and emotional development; 

 

2.  Behavior management and positive guidance techniques; 

 

3.  Prevention and control of infectious diseases; 

 

4.  Prevention of sudden infant death syndrome and use of safe sleep practices; 

 

5.  Prevention of and response to emergencies due to food and other allergic reactions including: 

 

a. Recognizing the symptoms of an allergic reaction; 

 

b. Responding to allergic reactions; 

 

c. Preventing exposure to the specific food and other substances to which the child is 

allergic; and 
 

d. Preventing cross-contamination; 

 

6.  The home's policies and procedures on the administration of medication; 

 

7.  Building and physical premises safety, including identification of and protection from hazards that 

can cause bodily injury such as electrical hazards, bodies of water, and vehicular traffic; 
 

8.  Prevention of shaken baby syndrome and abusive head trauma including procedures to cope with 

crying babies or distraught children; 
 

59-22 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

9.  Signs and symptoms of child abuse and neglect and requirements for mandated reporters; 

 

10.  Emergency preparedness and response planning for emergencies resulting from a natural disaster, 

or a human-caused event such as violence at a family day home and the home's specific 
emergency preparedness plan. Training on the home's emergency preparedness plan shall be 
completed annually and each time the plan is updated; 
 

11.  Handling and storage of hazardous materials and the appropriate disposal of diapers and other 

items contaminated by body fluids; 
 

12.  Precautions in transporting children, if applicable; and 

 

13.  The recommended care requirements related to the care and development of children with special 

needs, if applicable. 

 

C.  CPR and first aid training may count towards the annual training hours required in subsection A of this 

section. 
 

D.  Medication Administration Training. 

 

 

1.  To safely perform medication administration practices listed in § 59-48 whenever the family day 
care home has agreed to administer prescription medications or non-prescription medications, the 
administration shall be performed by a caregiver who: 
 

a. Has satisfactorily completed a training program for this purpose developed or approved 

by the Board of Nursing and taught by a registered nurse, licensed practical nurse, doctor 
of medicine or osteopathic medicine, or pharmacist; or 
 

b. Is licensed by the Commonwealth of Virginia to administer medications. 

2.  Caregivers required to have the training shall be retrained at three (3) year intervals. 

 

E.  Documentation of Education and Training. 

 

 

1.  The provider shall maintain written documentation of each caregiver’s applicable education and 

programmatic experience, first aid and CPR certification, orientation, annual training, and 
applicable medication administration training. 

2.  Written documentation of training shall include: 

 

a. Name of the caregiver; 

 

b. Training topic; 

 

c. Date and total hours of the session; and 

 

d. Name of the organization that sponsored the training and the trainer. 

 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-23 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

§ 59-28.  Caregiver and Household Member Health Requirements. 
 
Caregivers and household members shall be subject to the following physical and mental health requirements: 
 
A.  Initial Tuberculosis Screening for Caregivers and Household Members. 

 

1.  Each caregiver and each adult household member shall submit a current Report of Tuberculosis 

Screening documenting the absence of tuberculosis in a communicable form prior to coming into 
contact with children. 

 

2.  The form shall have been completed within the last 30 days and be signed by a physician, physicians’ 

designee, or an official of the local health department. 

 

B.  Subsequent Tuberculosis Screening for Caregivers and Household Members. 

 

1.  Each caregiver and adult household member shall submit a current Report of Tuberculosis Screening 
form every two (2) years from the date of the first screening or more frequently as recommended by a 
physician or the local health department. 

 

2.  Within 30 days of a caregiver’s or adult household member’s coming into contact with a known case 
of infectious tuberculosis, a new Report of Tuberculosis Screening form shall be submitted.  Until a 
new screening form is issued that documents the absence of tuberculosis in a communicable form, the 
caregiver or adult household member shall not have contact with children. 

 
3.  A new Report of Tuberculosis Screening form shall be submitted for any caregiver or adult household 

member who develops chronic respiratory symptoms of three (3) weeks duration.  Until a new 
screening form is issued that documents the absence of tuberculosis in a communicable form, the 
caregiver or adult household member shall not have contact with children. 

 

C.  Medical Certification for Caregivers and Household Members. 

 

1.  Each caregiver shall submit a medical certification that they are physically and mentally fit to care for 

children. 
 

2.  Each adult household member shall submit a medical certification that they are physically and 

mentally fit to be around children. 
 

3.  For providers and adult household members, the medical certification shall be submitted at the time of 

initial application for licensure and prior to coming into contact with children. 

 
4.  For substitute providers and assistants, the medical certification shall be submitted at the time of 

employment and prior to coming into contact with children. 
 

5.  The certification shall have been completed within the last 30 days and be signed by a physician or 

physician’s designee. 
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-29. Children’s Health Requirements. 
 
A.  Immunizations for Children. 

 
1.  Before a child may attend the family day care home, the provider shall obtain documentation that the child 

has been immunized according to the requirements of § 32.1-46 A of the Code of Virginia and applicable 
State Board of Health Regulations.   

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-24 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

a.  The provider may allow a child to attend contingent upon a conditional enrollment. Documentation 

related to the child's conditional enrollment shall be maintained in the child's record. 

 

b.  Conditional enrollment means the enrollment of a child for a period of 90 days contingent upon the 

child having received at least one dose of each of the required vaccines and the child possessing a plan, 
from a physician or local health department, for completing his/her immunization requirements within 
the ensuing 90 calendar days. If the child requires more than two (2) doses of hepatitis B vaccine, the 
conditional enrollment period, for hepatitis B vaccine only, shall be 180 calendar days. 

 
c. 

If a child is homeless and does not have documentation of the required immunizations, the provider 
may allow the child to attend during a grace period of no more than 90 days to allow the parent or 
guardian time to obtain documentation of required immunizations. Enrollment of a homeless child 
without the required immunizations must be documented in the child's record. 

 

2.  Pursuant to subsection C of § 32.1-46.D of the Code of Virginia, documentation of immunizations is not 

required for any child whose: 
 
a.  Parent submits an affidavit to the provider on the current form approved by the Virginia Department of 

Health stating that the administration of immunizing agents conflicts with the parent’s or child’s 
religious tenets or practices; or 

 

b.  Physician or a local health department states on a Department of Health-approved form that one or 
more of the required immunizations may be detrimental to the child’s health, indicating the specific 
nature and probable duration of the medical condition or circumstance that contraindicates 
immunization. 

 

3.  The provider shall obtain documentation of additional immunizations for a child who is not exempt from 

the immunization requirements according to subsection 2 of this section: 

 

a.  At least once annually for children under the age of two (2) years; and 

 

b.  Once between each child’s fourth and sixth birthdays. 
 

B.  Physical Examinations for Children. 

 
1.  The provider shall obtain documentation of a physical examination by or under the direction of a physician 
prior to (i) a child’s attendance or (ii) within 30 days after the first day of attendance.  If a child is homeless 
and does not have documentation of a physical examination, the provider may allow the child to attend 
during a grace period of no more than 90 days to allow the parent or guardian time to obtain documentation 
of the required physical examination. Enrollment of a homeless child without documentation of a physical 
examination must be documented in the child's record. 
 

2.  The physical examination prior to attendance shall have been conducted within: 

 
a.  Six (6) months prior to attendance for children under the age of two (2) years; 

 

b.  Twelve (12) months prior to attendance for children two (2) years of age through five (5) years of age; 

or 
 

c.  Twenty-four (24) months prior to attendance for children six (6) years of age and above. 

 

3.  When a child transfers from a facility licensed by the Arlington County Department of Human Services or 

the Virginia Department of Social Services, approved by a licensed family day system, voluntarily 
registered by the Virginia Department of Social Services, or approved by the Virginia Department of 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-25 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

Education, a new physical examination is not required if a copy of the physical examination from the 
originating program is maintained in the child's record. 
 

4.  Pursuant to subsection D of § 22.1-270 of the Code of Virginia, physical examinations are not required for 
any child whose parent objects on religious grounds. The parent must submit a signed statement noting that 
the parent objects on religious grounds and certifying that to the best of the parent’s knowledge the child is 
in good health and free from communicable or contagious disease. 
 

5.  For a school age child, a copy of the physical examination required for his/her entry into a Virginia public 

kindergarten or elementary school is acceptable documentation to meet the requirements of this section. 
 

C.  Form and Content of Immunization and Physical Examination Reports. 

 
1.  The current form approved by the Virginia Department of Health or a physician’s form shall be used to 

record immunizations received and the results of the required physical examination. 
 

2.  Each report shall include the date of the physical examination and dates immunizations were received and 
shall be signed, electronically signed, and/or stamped by a licensed physician, the physician’s designee, or 
an official of a local health department. 
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-30. Physical Environment. 
 
A.  Home Maintenance. 

 
Areas and furnishings of the family day care home, inside and outside, shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and 
operable condition. Unsafe conditions shall include, but not be limited to, the presence of poisonous plants; 
tripping hazards; unstable heavy equipment, furniture, or other items that a child could pull down on himself; 
splintered, cracked, or otherwise deteriorating wood; chipped or peeling paint; visible cracks, bending or 
warping, rusting, or breakage of any equipment; head entrapment hazards; and protruding nails, bolts, or other 
components that could entangle or could snag skin. 
 

B.  Telephones. 

 
1.  A landline telephone or cell phone shall be available, operable, and accessible during the family day care 

home’s hours of operation. If a cordless telephone or cell phone is used to meet this requirement, a backup 
power source must be available in case of an extended power outage. 

 

2. 

If the telephone number is unlisted, the provider shall ensure that parents and the Department have been 
given the unlisted number in writing. 
 

3.  The provider shall inform the Department within 48 hours and parents within 24 hours of a change of the 

telephone number. 
 
 

C.  Bathrooms. 

 

1.  The family day care home shall have an indoor bathroom. 

 

2.  The bathroom shall be easily accessible to children two (2) years of age and older. 

 

3.  The bathroom shall be kept clean and contain a working toilet and sink, toilet tissue, soap, and towels. 

 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-26 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

D.  Water Supply. 
 

1.  The family day care home shall have indoor running water. 

 

2.  Family day care homes connected to a municipal water supply and sewer line that have open and obvious 

symptoms of water or sewage system problems shall have the problems corrected within a time frame 
established by the local public utility department. 
 

3.  There shall be hot and cold water available to children and caregivers for hand washing. 

 

4.  Hot water at taps available to children shall be maintained within a range of 105 degrees Fahrenheit and 

120 degrees Fahrenheit. 
 

E.  Garbage. 

 

1.  Garbage shall be removed on a daily basis from rooms occupied by children and removed from the 

premises at least once weekly or more often as needed. 

 

2.  There shall be a sufficient number of garbage and diaper containers. Diaper containers must be covered. 

 

3.  Children shall not be allowed access to garbage storage areas. 

 

4.  Garbage storage areas shall be free of litter, odor, and uncontained trash. 

 

F.  Rodents and Insects. 

 

1.  The home shall be kept free from rodents and insect infestation. 

 

2.  No home shall maintain any receptacle or pool, whether natural or artificial, containing water in such 

condition that insects breeding therein may become a menace to public health. 
 

G.  Heating and Cooling. 

 

1.  The temperature in all inside areas occupied by children shall be maintained no lower than 65 degrees 

Fahrenheit. 

 

2.  Fans or other cooling systems shall be used when the temperature of inside areas occupied by children 

exceeds 80 degrees Fahrenheit. 
 

3.  Whenever the County Manager shall determine and declare that an energy shortage exists, the minimum 

thermal standards set forth in this section shall be superseded by thermal standards established by the 
County Manager. Such standards shall be consistent with the nature and extent of the energy shortage and 
the health and safety of the occupants. These standards shall remain in effect until the County Manager 
shall declare the emergency is ended.  

 

H.  Lighting. 

 

1.  Rooms, halls, and stairways used by children in care shall be lighted with natural or electric lighting for the 

children’s safety and comfort. 

 

2.  Entrance and exit ways shall be unobstructed and be lighted with natural or electric lighting. 

 
 
 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-27 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

I.  Doors. 

 
Closet doors with latches shall be such that children can open the door from inside the closet. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-31. Emergency Provisions. 
 
A.  A plan for emergency situations and for illness of staff shall be maintained and made available for County 

inspections. 
 

B.  Emergency Information. 

 
1.  The emergency contact information and the parent’s written authorization for emergency medical care, 

both as required by § 59-24.E, shall be made available to a physician, hospital, or emergency 
responders in the event of a child’s illness or injury. 
 

2.  Annually, the provider shall: 
 

a.  Review with the parent the emergency contact information required in § 59-24.E to ensure the 

information is correct, and 

 
b.  Obtain the parent’s signed acknowledgement of the review. 

 

C.  Posted Telephone Numbers. 

 
1.  The following telephone numbers shall be posted in a visible area of the family day care home: 

 

 

 

a.  A 911 or local dial number for police, fire, and emergency medical responders; 
 
b.  The responsible person for emergency backup care as required in §59-22.L.3; and 

c.  The regional poison control center. 

D.  Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan. 

 

1.  The provider shall review the emergency plan at least annually and update the plan as needed.  The 

provider shall document in writing each review and update to the emergency plan. 
 

2.  The provider shall ensure that each caregiver receives training regarding the emergency evacuation, 
emergency relocation, shelter-in-place, and lockdown procedures by the end of his/her first week of 
assuming job responsibilities, on an annual basis, and at the time of each plan update. 

 

E.  Evacuation, Relocation, Shelter-in-place, and Lockdown Procedures. 

 
1.  The provider shall establish and follow evacuation, relocation, shelter-in-place, and lockdown 

procedures. 
 

2.  Evacuation, relocation, shelter-in-place, and lockdown procedures shall include: 

 

a.  Methods to alert caregivers and emergency responders; 
 
b.  Designated primary and secondary routes to the safe location/lockdown location within the 

 

home, or out of the building; 

59-28 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

c.  Designated safe location/lockdown location within the home, assembly point away from the 

building, or relocation site; 

d.  Methods to ensure all children are moved to the safe location/lockdown location within the 

home, evacuated from the building, or moved to a relocation site; 

e.  Methods to account for all children at the safe location/lockdown location within the home, 

assembly point, or relocation site; 

f.  Methods to ensure essential documents, including emergency contact information, 

medications, and supplies are taken to the safe location/lockdown location within the home, 
assembly point, or relocation site; 

g.  Method of communication with parents and emergency responders;  

h.  Method of communication with parents after the relocation, if necessary; 

i.  Accommodations or special requirements for infants, toddlers, and children with special needs 

to ensure their safety during shelter-in-place, lockdown, evacuation, or relocation; and 

j.  Procedures to reunite children with a parent or authorized person designated by the parent to 

pick up the child. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F.  Emergency Response Drills. 

 
1.  The emergency evacuation procedures shall be practiced monthly with all caregivers and children in 

care during all shifts that children are in care. 
 

2.  Shelter-in-place procedures shall be practiced a minimum of twice per year. 

3.  Lockdown procedures shall be practiced at least annually. 
 
4.  Documentation shall be maintained of emergency evacuation, shelter-in-place, and lockdown drills 

that includes: 

Identity of the person conducting the drill; 

a. 
 
b.  The date and time of the drill; 

c.  The method used for notification of the drill; 

d.  The number of caregivers participating; 

e.  The number of children participating; 

f.  Any special conditions simulated; 

g.  The time it took to complete the drill; 

h.  Problems encountered, if any; and 

i.  For emergency evacuation drills only, weather conditions. 

5.  Records of emergency evacuation, shelter-in-place, and lockdown drills shall be maintained for one 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

year. 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-29 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

G.  Injury Records. 

 
1.  The provider shall record in the child’s record an injury or accident sustained by a child while at the 

family day care home that requires first aid or emergency medical or dental treatment. 
 

2.  The information recorded shall include the following: 
 

a.  Date and time of injury, 
 
b.  Name of injured child, 

c.  Type and circumstances of the injury, 

d.  Caregiver present and action taken, 

e.  Date and time when parents were notified, 

 

 

 

 

f.  Any future action to prevent recurrence of the injury, 

g.  Caregiver and parent signatures or two caregiver signatures, and 

 

 

h.  Documentation on how the parent was notified. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-32. First Aid and Emergency Supplies. 
 
A.  The following emergency supplies shall be in the family day care home, accessible to outdoor play areas, on 

field trips, in vehicles used for transportation and wherever children are in care: 
 

1.  A first aid kit that contains at a minimum: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
a.  Scissors; 
 

b.  Tweezers; 

c.  Gauze pads; 

d.  Adhesive tape; 

e.  Adhesive bandages, assorted sizes; 

f.  Antiseptic cleaning solution or pads; 

g.  Digital thermometer; 

h.  Triangular bandage; 

i.  Single use gloves such as surgical or examination gloves; 

j.  First aid instructional manual. 

2.  An ice pack or cooling agent. 

 

59-30 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

B.  The first aid kit shall be readily accessible to caregivers and inaccessible to children. 

 

C.  A working battery-operated flashlight, a working portable battery-operated radio, and extra batteries shall be 

kept in a designated area and be available to caregivers at all times. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-33. Safety. 
 
A.  No equipment, materials, or furnishings shall be used if recalled or identified by the U.S. Consumer Product 

Safety Commission as being hazardous. 
 

B.  Potentially poisonous substances, materials and supplies such as, but not limited to, cleaning agents, 

disinfectants, deodorizers, plant care chemicals, pesticides, and petroleum distillates shall be stored away from 
food in areas inaccessible to children. 
 

C.  Sharp kitchen utensils and other sharp objects shall be inaccessible to children unless being used by the 

caregiver or with children under close supervision. 
 

D.  When any surface has been contaminated with body fluids, it shall be cleaned and sanitized. 

 

E.  Machinery in operation such as lawnmowers and power tools shall be inaccessible to the children in care. 

 

F.  Hanging, Suffocation and Strangulation Hazards. 

 

1.  Hanging items including, but not limited to, window blind or curtain cords, appliance cords, and ropes 

shall be out of reach of children under five (5) years of age. 
 

2.  Children shall be protected from materials that could be swallowed or present a choking hazard.  Small 

3. 

toys or objects shall be kept out of reach of children under the age of three (3) years. 
 
Items tied across the top or corner of a crib or playpen or toys hung from the sides with strings or cords 
shall be removed when the child begins to push up on hands and knees or is five (5) months of age, 
whichever occurs first. 
 

4.  Hood or neck drawstrings shall be removed from a child’s clothing prior to a child’s using climbing 

play equipment. 
 

5.  Latex gloves, balloons, and empty plastic bags large enough for a child’s head to fit inside shall be 

inaccessible to children under five (5) years of age. 
 

G.  Fire Safety and Shock Prevention. 

 

1.  Small electrical appliances shall be unplugged unless being used by the caregiver or with children 

under close supervision. 
 

2.  Child-resistant protective covers shall be installed on all unused electrical outlets and surge protectors 

accessible to children under five (5) years of age. 
 

3.  No electrical device accessible to children shall be placed so that it could be plugged into an electrical 

outlet while in contact with a water source, such as a sink, tub, shower area, toilet, or swimming or 
wading pool. 
 

4.  Electrical cords and electrical appliances and equipment with cords that are frayed and have exposed 

wires shall not be used. 

59-31 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

5.  Radiators, oil and wood burning stoves, floor furnaces, fireplaces, portable electric heaters, and similar 

heating devices located in areas accessible to children shall have barriers or screens and be located at 
least three (3) feet from combustible materials. 
 

6.  Unvented fuel burning heaters shall not be used when children are in care. Unvented fuel burning 
heaters include, but are not limited to, portable oil-burning (kerosene) heaters; portable, unvented 
liquid or gas fueled heaters; and unvented fireplaces. 
 

7.  All flammable and combustible materials such as, but not limited to, matches, lighters, lighter fluid, 

kerosene, turpentine, oil and grease products, aerosol cans, and alcohol shall be stored in an area 
inaccessible to children. 
 

9. 

8.  There must be an operable smoke detector on each level of the home and a fire extinguisher in the 
home, as required by the Uniform Statewide Building Code and Statewide Fire Prevention Code. 
 
If there are open and obvious fire hazards, including the absence of fire extinguishers or smoke 
detectors as required by the Uniform Statewide Building Code and the Statewide Fire Prevention 
Code, the local fire prevention or building officials, or the State Fire Marshal’s office shall be 
contacted by the Department’s representative.  The provider shall comply with the requirements or 
recommendations made by the fire prevention or building officials to eliminate fire hazards. 
 

H.  Firearms and Ammunition. 

 

1.  Firearms of every type and purpose shall be stored unloaded in a locked container, compartment, or 

cabinet, and apart from ammunition. 
 

2.  Ammunition shall be stored in a locked container, compartment, or cabinet during the family day care 

home’s hours of operation. 
 
If a key is used to lock the container, compartment, or cabinet, the key shall be inaccessible to children. 
 

3. 

I.  Stairs 

 

1.  Children under two (2) years of age and children over two (2) years of age who are not 

developmentally ready to climb or descend stairs without supervision shall not have access to stairs. 
 

2.  Accordion expansion gates and pressure mounted gates shall not be used as protective barriers at stair 

openings. 
 

3.  Children over the age of two (2) shall not have access to stairs with three (3) or more risers that do not 

have protective barriers or guardrails on each side. 
 

4.  Protective barriers or guardrails on sides of stairs shall be constructed to prevent a child from climbing 

over, crawling or falling through, or becoming entrapped. 
 

J.  Decks and Porches. 

 

1.  Protective barriers or guardrails shall be constructed to prevent a child from climbing over, crawling or 

falling through, or becoming entrapped. 
 

2.  Children shall not have access to decks, porches, lofts, or balconies that do not have protective barriers 

or guardrails. 
 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-32 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

§ 59-34. Play Space, Equipment and Materials. 
 
A.  The family day care home shall provide each child with space to allow free movement and active play indoors 

and out. 
 

B.  Each child who is two (2) years of age and older shall have access to an individual location in which to keep 

clothing, toys, and belongings. 

 

C.  Each child who is under the age of two (2) shall have an individual location in which to keep clothing, toys, and 

belongings that is accessible to the caregiver and parent. 
 

D.  The family day care home shall provide a sufficient quantity and variety of play materials and equipment that 

shall be readily accessible to children. 

 

E.  Equipment and materials used by a child shall be appropriate to the age, size, ability, and interest of the child. 
 
F.  Equipment used by children shall be assembled, maintained, and used in accordance with the manufacturer’s 

instructions. 

 

G.  Equipment and materials used by children shall be clean, nontoxic, and free from hazards such as lead paint, 

sharp edges or points, loose parts, and rust. 

 

H.  Toys mouthed by children shall be cleaned and sanitized daily. 

 

I.  The climbing portions of indoor slides and climbing equipment over 18 inches high shall not be over bare floor. 

 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-35. Provider-Owned Outdoor Play Area and Equipment. 

 

A.  Provider-owned outdoor play equipment shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and operable condition. 

 

B.  The highest climbing rung or platform on provider-owned outdoor climbing equipment or top of a slide shall 

not exceed six (6) feet for school age children and four (4) feet for preschool children. 

 

C.  Stationary provider-owned outdoor playground equipment shall: 

 
1.  Not be installed over concrete, asphalt, or any other hard surface; 

 

2.  Be placed at least six (6) feet from the perimeter of other play structures or obstacles; and 

 

3.  Be firmly anchored with ground supports that are covered with materials to protect children from 

injury. 
 

D.  Provider-owned sandboxes shall be covered when not in use. 

 

E.  Trampolines shall not be used during the hours children are in care. 
 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-36. Health Procedures.  

 

A.  Each provider shall have a State Health Department “Communicable Disease Chart,” which can be obtained 

online, and a State Health and Education Department flip chart “Suggestions for Temporary Care of 
Emergencies in Schools,” which can be obtained from the Department. 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-33 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

B.  Preventing the Spread of Disease. 

 

1.  Exclusion of Sick Children. 

 

a. Unless otherwise approved by a child’s health professional, a child shall be excluded from the 

family day care home if he/she has: 
 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

Both fever and behavior change. A fever means oral temperature over 101 degrees 
Fahrenheit or armpit temperature over 100 degrees Fahrenheit; 
 
Diarrhea (more watery, less formed, more frequent stools not associated with a 
diet change or medication).  Children in diapers who develop diarrhea shall be 
excluded, and children who have learned to use the toilet, but cannot make it to the 
toilet in time, shall also be excluded; 
 
Recurrent vomiting (vomiting two (2) or more times in 24 hours); or 
 
Symptoms of a communicable disease listed in the Virginia Department of 
Health’s current communicable disease chart, which can be obtained online. 
 

b. If a child needs to be excluded according to subsection a of this section, the following shall 

apply: 
 

i. 

ii. 

The parents or designated emergency contact shall be contacted immediately so that 
arrangements can be made to remove the child from the family day care home as 
soon as possible; and 
 
The child shall remain in a quiet, designated area and the caregiver shall respond 
immediately to the child until the child leaves the family day care home. 

 

C.  Hand Washing. 

 

1.  Caregivers shall wash their hands with soap and warm running water: 

 

a. When their hands are dirty; 

 

b. After toileting; 

 

c. Before preparing and serving food; 

 

d. Before feeding or helping children with feeding; 

 

e. After contact with any body fluids; 

 

f. After handling or caring for animals; 

 

g. After handling raw eggs or meat; and 

 

h. After diapering a child or assisting a child with toileting. 

 

2.  Caregivers shall ensure that children’s hands are washed with soap and warm running water: 

 

a. When their hands are dirty; 

 

59-34 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

b. Before eating; 

 

c. After toileting or diapering; 

 

d. After handling or caring for animals; and 

 

e. After contact with any body fluids. 

 

D.  Diapering and Toileting. 

 

1.  A child shall not be left unattended on a changing table during diapering. 

 

2.  When a child’s clothing or diaper becomes wet or soiled, the child shall be cleaned and changed 

immediately. 
 

3.  During each diaper change or after toileting accidents, the child’s genital area shall be thoroughly 

cleaned with a moist disposable wipe or a moist, clean individually assigned cloth, if the child is 
allergic to disposable wipes. 
 

4.  The diapering surface shall be: 

 

a. Separate from the kitchen, food preparation areas, or surfaces used for children’s activities; 

 

b. Nonabsorbent and washable; and 

 

c. Cleaned and sanitized after each use. 

 

5.  Soiled disposable diapers and wipes shall be disposed of in a covered, leak-proof or plastic-lined 

storage system that is either foot operated or used in such a way that neither the caregiver’s hand nor 
the soiled diaper or wipe touches the exterior surface of the storage system during disposal. 
 

6.  When cloth diapers are used, a separate leak-proof storage system as specified in subsection 5 of this 

section shall be used for each individual child. 
 

7.  Children five (5) years of age and older shall be permitted privacy when toileting. 

 

8.  Caregivers shall respond promptly to a child’s request for toileting assistance. 

 

9.  The provider shall consult with the parent before toilet training is initiated. 

 

10.  Toilet training shall be relaxed and pressure free. 

 

11.  There shall be a toilet chair or an adult-sized toilet with a platform or steps and adapter seat available 

to a child being toilet trained. 
 

12.  Toilet chairs, when used, shall be emptied promptly, cleaned and sanitized after each use. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-37. Supervision of Children. 
 
A.  A caregiver shall be physically present on site and provide direct care and supervision of each child at all times. 

Direct care and supervision of each child includes: 

 

1.  Awareness of and responsibility for each child in care, including being near enough to intervene if 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-35 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

needed; and 

 

2.  Monitoring of each sleeping infant in one of the following ways: 

a. By placing each infant for sleep in a location where the infant is within sight and hearing of a 

caregiver; 
 

b. By in-person observation of each sleeping infant at least once every 15 minutes; or 

 

 

c. By using a baby monitor. 

 

B.  Caregivers shall actively supervise each child during outdoor play to minimize the risk of injury to a child. 
 
C.  Infants shall be protected from older children. 
 
D.  No children under five (5) years of age or a child older than five (5) who lacks the motor skills and strength to 

avoid accidental drowning, scalding, or falling while bathing shall be left unattended while in the bathtub. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-38. Staff-to-Child-Ratios. 
 
A.   Determining Need for Additional Caregiver. 

 

1.  The provider shall ensure that a caregiver does not exceed 12 points by using the following point 

system to determine if an additional caregiver is needed: 
 

a.  Children from birth up to two (2) years of age shall count as three (3) points each; 

b. Children from two (2) through four (4) years of age shall count as two (2) points each; 

c. Children from five (5) years through nine (9) years of age shall count as one (1) point each; and 

d. Children who are 10 years of age and older shall count as zero (0) points each. 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

2.  A caregiver’s own children and resident children under 10 years of age shall count in point maximums. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-39. General Requirements for Programs. 
 
A.  In order to promote the child’s physical, intellectual, emotional, and social well-being and growth, caregivers 

shall: 
 

1.  Talk to the child; 

 

2.  Provide needed help, comfort, and support; 

3.  Respect personal privacy; 

4.  Respect differences in cultural, ethnic, and family background; 

5.  Encourage decision-making abilities; 

6.  Promote ways of getting along; 

59-36 

 

 

 

 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

 

7.  Encourage independence and self-direction; and 

8.  Use consistency in applying expectations. 
 

B.  Caregivers shall provide age-appropriate activities for children in care throughout the day that: 

 
1.  Are based on the physical, social, emotional, and intellectual needs of the children; 

 

2.  Reflect the diversity of enrolled children’s families, culture, and ethnic backgrounds; and 

 

3.  Enhance the total development of children. 

 
C.  Daily age-appropriate activities shall include: 

 

1.  Opportunities for alternating periods of indoor active and quiet play depending on the ages of the 

children; 
 

 

 

 

 

2.  Opportunities for vigorous outdoor play daily, depending upon the weather, the ages, and the health of 

the children; 

3.  Opportunities for one or more regularly scheduled rest or nap periods. Children unable to sleep shall be 

provided time and space for quiet play; 

4.  Opportunities for children to learn about themselves, others, and the world around them; 

5.  Opportunities for children to exercise initiative and develop independence in accordance with their 

ages; and 

6.  Opportunities for structured and unstructured play time and provider-directed and child-initiated 

learning activities. 

 
D.  Daily Activities for Infants and Toddlers. 

 

1. 

 

 

 
2. 

Infants and toddlers shall be provided with opportunities to: 
 
a. 

Interact with caregivers and other children in the home in order to stimulate language 
development; 

 

b.  Play with a wide variety of safe, age-appropriate toys; 

c.  Receive individual attention from caregivers including, but not limited to, holding, cuddling, 

talking, and reading; and 

d.  Reach, grasp, pull up, creep, crawl, and walk to develop motor skills. 

Infants and toddlers shall spend no more than 30 minutes of consecutive time during waking hours, 
with the exception of mealtimes, confined in a crib, play pen, high chair or other confining piece of 
equipment. The intervening time period between confinements shall be at least one hour. 
 

E.  Television, Computers, Videos, and Video Games. 

 
1.  Use of media such as, but not limited to, television, videos, video games, and computers shall be: 

 

a.  Limited to not more than a total of two (2) hours per day; and 

59-37 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

b.  Limited to programs, tapes, websites, and software that are age appropriate and educational. 

 
2.  Other activities shall be available to children during television or video viewing. 

 

F.  Care of a Child with Special Needs. 

 

 

 

 

1.  Caregivers shall provide a child with special needs with the care and activities recommended in writing 

by a physician, psychologist, or other professional who has evaluated or treated the child. 

2.  The written recommendation shall: 

a. 

Include instructions for any special treatment, diet, or restrictions in activities that are necessary 
for the health of the child; and 

 
b.  Be maintained in the child’s record. 

 
3.  The provider shall ensure the environment is appropriate for the child based on the plan of care and 

shall instruct other caregivers in the proper techniques of care. 

4.  A caregiver shall perform only those procedures and treatments for which he/she has the necessary 

training, experience, credentials, or license to perform. 

 
5.  Staffing shall be appropriate and adequate to meet the specific physical and developmental needs of a 

child with special needs in care. 

 
6.  The provider and the parent of the child with special needs shall mutually determine a recommendation 
for the level of staffing necessary to care for and supervise the child based on the child’s chronological 
and functional age and degree of disability. 

 
7.  Within 30 days of the child’s enrollment, the provider shall provide the Department’s representative a 

written recommendation for the level of staffing necessary to care for and supervise the child. 

 
8.  The Department shall make the final decision regarding the level of staffing or any capacity limitations 

necessary to care for, supervise, and protect all children in care when a child with special needs is 
receiving care. 

 
9.  The parent, provider, and Department’s representative shall review the staffing requirements annually. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-40. Parental Notification. 
 

A.  Caregivers shall provide written or oral information daily to parents about the child’s health, development, 

behavior, adjustment, or needs. 
 

B.  The provider shall give parents prior notice when a substitute provider will be caring for the children. 

 

C.  Caregivers shall notify parents when persistent behavioral problems are identified and such notification 

shall include any disciplinary steps taken in response. 
 

D.  The provider shall notify the parent immediately when the child: 

 
1.  Has a head injury or any serious injury that requires emergency medical or dental treatment; 

 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-38 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

2.  Has an adverse reaction to medication administered; 
 
3.  Has been administered medication incorrectly; 
 
4. 
 
5.  Has died. 

Is lost or missing; or 

 

E.  The provider shall notify a parent the same day whenever first aid is administered to the child. 

 

F.  When a child has been exposed to a communicable disease listed in the Virginia Department of Health’s 

current communicable disease chart, the provider shall notify the parent within 24 hours or the next 
business day of the family day care home’s having been informed, unless forbidden by law, except for life-
threatening diseases, which must be reported to parents immediately.  The provider shall consult the local 
health department if there is a question about the communicability of a disease. 
 

G.  A parent shall be notified immediately of any confirmed or suspected allergic reaction and the ingestion of 

prohibited food even if a reaction did not occur. 
 

H.  Parents shall be informed of any changes in the family day care home’s emergency preparedness and 

response plan. 
 

I.  Except in emergency evacuation or relocation situations, the provider shall inform the parent and have 

written permission as required by § 59-53.A whenever the child will be taken off the premises of the family 
day care home, before such occasion. 
 
If an emergency evacuation or relocation is necessary, the parent shall be informed of the child’s 
whereabouts as soon as possible. 

J. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 

 
§ 59-41. Behavior Management. 

 

A.   In order to promote the child’s physical, intellectual, emotional, and social well-being and growth, staff 

shall:  
 

1.  Respect differences in cultural, ethnic and family backgrounds; 

 

2.  Use acceptable techniques and approaches to help children solve problems; 

 

3.  Guide children in a way as to help children develop self-control and assume responsibility for 

his/her actions through clear and consistent rules and limits appropriate to the ages and 
development of children in care. 
 

B.  When a child’s behavior harms or is likely to result in harm to the child, others or property, or seriously 

disrupts the environment, the child may be separated briefly in order for the child to regain self-control. If a 
child is separated, the child must be placed in an area where he or she is in direct supervision of the provider 
or other caregivers. 
 

C.  When time out is used as a discipline technique, it shall: 

 

1.  Be used sparingly and shall not exceed one (1) minute for each year of the child’s age; 

 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-39 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

2.  Be appropriate to the child’s developmental level and individual needs; 

 

3.  Not be used with infants and toddlers; 

 

4.  Be in a safe, lighted, well-ventilated place where the child is in direct sight and sound supervision 

of a caregiver; and 
 

5.  Not occur where the child is left alone inside or outside of the home while separated from the 

group. 
 

D.  Any abuse and maltreatment of a child is prohibited. The provider must prohibit any act of abuse or 

maltreatment by any caregiver. 
 

E.  The following actions or threats to children are prohibited: 

 

1.  Physical punishment, such as but not limited to striking, biting, shaking, twisting, squeezing, or 

roughly handling a child; 
 

2.  Physical restraint or any restriction of a child’s movement through binding or tying; 

 

3.  Forcing a child to assume an uncomfortable position, or exercise as punishment; 

4. 

 
Isolating a child in a small confined space or any space in which the child cannot freely exit; 
however, this does not apply to the use of equipment such as cribs, play yards, high chairs, 
and safety gates when used with children preschool age or younger for their intended purpose; 
 

5.  Punishment by another child; 

 

6.  Separating a child from the group in which the child is not in direct supervision of staff; 

 

7.  Withholding or forcing of food or rest; 

 

8.  Methods of discipline or interaction which frighten, humiliate or are demeaning to the child; and 

 

9.  Punishment for toileting accidents. 

 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-42. Nutrition and Food Services. 
 

A.  General Requirements for Meals and Snacks. 

 

1.  The provider shall schedule snacks or meals so there is a period of at least 1-1/2 hours, but no more 
than three (3) hours, between each meal or snack unless there is a scheduled rest or sleep period for 
children between the meals and snacks. 
 

2.  The provider shall ensure that children arriving from a half-day, morning program who have not yet 

eaten lunch receive a lunch. 
 

3.  Leftover food shall be discarded from individual plates following a meal or snack. 
 
4.  Tables and high chair trays shall be cleaned after each use, but at least daily. 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-40 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

5.  Food shall be prepared, stored, served, and transported in a clean and sanitary manner. 

6.  When food is prepared that a child in care is allergic to, the caregiver shall take steps to avoid cross-

contamination in order to prevent an allergic reaction. 

7.  Caregivers who prepare and serve food to children, or supervise meals, shall be aware of the food 

allergies, sensitivities, and dietary restrictions for each child. 

8.  Caregivers shall not serve prohibited food to a child. 

 

 

 

B.  Meals and Snacks Provided by the Family Day Care Home. 
 

When family day care homes provide meals or snacks, the following shall apply: 

 

1.  The provider shall follow the most recent, age-appropriate nutritional requirements of a recognized 

authority such as the Child and Adult Care Food Program of the United States Department of 
Agriculture (USDA). 

 

2.  Children shall be allowed second helpings of food listed in the child care food program meal patterns. 
 

C.  Meals and Snacks Brought from Child’s Home. 
 

When food is brought from home, the following shall apply: 

 

1.  The food container shall be clearly labeled in a way that identifies the owner; 
 
2.  The provider shall have extra food or shall have provisions to obtain food to serve to a child so the 

child can have an appropriate snack or meal as required in § 59-42.B.1 if the child forgets to bring food 
from home or brings an inadequate meal or snack; and 

3.  Unused portions of food shall be discarded by the end of the day or returned to the parent. 
 

D.  Prevention of Choking. 
 

1.  To assist in preventing choking, food that is hard, round, small, thick and sticky, or smooth and 

slippery such as whole hot dogs sliced into rounds, nuts, seeds, raisins, uncut grapes, uncut raw carrots, 
peanuts, chunks of peanut butter, hard candy, and popcorn shall not be served to children under four 
(4) years of age, unless the food is prepared before being served in a manner that will reduce the risk of 
choking, i.e., hot dogs cut lengthwise, grapes cut into small pieces, and carrots cooked or cut 
lengthwise. 
 

2.  Children shall be served small-sized portions to prevent choking. 

3.  Children shall not be allowed to eat or drink while walking, running, playing, lying down, or riding in 

vehicles. 

 

E.  Drinking Water and Fluids. 
 

1.  Water shall be available for drinking and shall be offered on a regular basis to all children in care. 

2. 

 
In environments of 80 degrees Fahrenheit or above, attention shall be given to the fluid needs of 
children at regular intervals.  Children in such environments shall be encouraged to drink fluids. 

 
3.  Clean individual drinking cups shall be provided daily.  Children shall not be allowed to share 

common drinking cups. 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-41 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

F.  Eating Utensils and Dishes. 
 

1.  Eating utensils shall be appropriate in size for children to handle. 

 

 

 

2.  Eating utensils and dishes shall be properly cleaned by prerinsing, washing, and air drying, or using a 

dishwasher. 

 
3.  Disposable utensils and dishes shall be used once and discarded. 

G.  Food storage. 
 

1.  Temperatures shall be maintained at or below 40 degrees Fahrenheit in refrigerator compartments and 

at or below 0 degrees Fahrenheit in the freezer compartments. 
 

2.  The provider shall have an operable thermometer available to monitor refrigerator and freezer 

compartment temperatures. 

3.  All perishable foods and drinks used for children in care, except when being prepared and served, shall 

be kept in the refrigerator. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-43. Infant Feeding. 
 
A.  Infants shall be fed on demand unless the parent provides other written instructions. 

 

B.  Infants who cannot hold their own bottles shall be picked up and held for bottle feeding.  Bottles shall not be 

propped. 

 
C.  High chairs, infant carrier seats, or feeding tables with safety waist and crotch straps fastened according to the 

manufacturer’s instructions shall be used for children under 12 months of age who are not held while being fed. 

 
D.  Infant formula shall be prepared according to the manufacturer’s or physician’s instructions. 
 
E.  Bottles shall be refrigerated and labeled with the child’s full name and the date, if more than one (1) infant is in 

care. 

 
F.  Refrigerated bottles of prepared formula and breast milk shall be discarded after 48 hours if not used. 
 
G.  Bottles shall not be heated in a microwave oven. 
 
H.  To avoid burns, heated formula and baby food shall be stirred or shaken and tested for temperature before being 

served to children. 

 
I.  Solid foods shall: 
 

1.  Not be fed to infants less than four (4) months of age without parental consent, and 

 

2.  Be fed with a spoon, with the exception of finger foods. 

 
J.  Baby food remaining in: 
 

1.  A serving dish shall be discarded. Baby food may be served from the container, but any food 

remaining after the child is done eating shall be discarded; 

59-42 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

 

 

2.  Opened containers, from which a portion has been removed but not from which food was served, shall 

be refrigerated and labeled with the child’s full name and the date, if more than one (1) infant is in 
care; and 

3.  Opened containers stored in the refrigerator shall be discarded if not consumed within 24 hours of 

storage. 

K.  The consistency of food provided for a child with special needs shall be appropriate to any special feeding 

needs of the child. 

 

L.  Necessary and adaptive feeding equipment and feeding techniques shall be used for a child with special feeding 

needs. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-44. Infant and Toddler Equipment. 
  
A. 

Infant carrier seats, swings, strollers, feeding or activity tables, and high chairs shall be used according to 
the manufacturer’s instructions and when occupied by a child, a safety strap shall be used and securely 
fastened. 

 

B. 

C. 

Infant walkers shall not be used. 
 
Play Pens. 

1. 

 
A play pen, where used, shall: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a. Have a firm floor with a secured, waterproof pad that is not more than one-inch thick; 

b. Have the sides up and the fastenings secured when a child is in the play pen, except when the 

caregiver is giving the child immediate attention; 

c. Be cleaned and sanitized each day of use or more often as needed; 

d. Not be occupied by more than one child; 

e. Not be used for the designated sleeping area; 

f. Not have torn mesh sides or vinyl-covered or fabric-covered rails, protruding rivets on the 

rails, or broken hinges; 

g. Not contain any pillows or filled comforters; 

h. Not contain large toys and other objects that can serve as a steeping stool for climbing out 

when a child can pull to a standing position; 

i.  Not be used by children who weigh 30 pounds or more; and 

j.  Not be used by children who are 35 inches tall or taller. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-43 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

§ 59-45. Cribs, Cots, Rest Mats, and Beds. 
 
A.  A child shall be provided with an individual crib, cot, rest mat, or bed for resting or napping. 

B.  Upper levels of double-deck beds shall not be used. 

 

 

C.  Rest mats that are used must have at least one (1) inch of cushioning. 

 

D.  Rest mats shall be cleaned and sanitized on all sides at least weekly and as needed. 
 
E.  Cribs shall be provided for children from birth through 12 months of age and for children over 12 months of age 

who are not developmentally ready to sleep on a cot, rest mat, or bed. 

 

F.  Cribs shall not be used as a play space for infants. 
 
G.  Occupied cribs, cots, rest mats, and beds shall be: 

 
1.  At least three (3) feet from any heat-producing appliance; and 

 

2.  At least 12 inches from each other. 

 
H.  Cribs shall: 
 

1.  Meet the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission standards at the time they were manufactured; 

2.  Not have been recalled; 

 

3.  Have mattresses that fit snugly next to the crib so that no more than two (2) fingers can be inserted 

between the mattress and the crib; 

4.  Not have end panel cutouts of a size to cause head entrapment; and 

 

 

 

5.  Not have mesh sides. 

 
I.  Double-deck cribs shall not be used. 

 

J.  Crib bumper pads shall not be used. 
 
K.  Crib sides shall always be up and the fastenings secured when a child is in the crib, except when the caregiver is 

giving the child immediate attention. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-46. Linens. 
 
A.  Cribs, cots, rest mats, and beds when being used for sleeping or napping by children other than infants shall 

have linens consisting of a top cover and a bottom cover or a one-piece covering that is open on three (3) edges. 

B.  Cribs when being used by infants shall have a tight-fitting bottom cover. 

 

 

C.  Linens shall be assigned for individual use. 

 

D.  Linens shall be clean and washed at least weekly or when soiled. 

 

E.  Clean linens shall be used each time a child rests on the bed of a family member. 

59-44 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

F.  No soft bedding of any kind shall be used under or around infants including, but not limited to, pillows, quilts, 

comforters, sheepskins, or stuffed toys. 

 

G.  Children under two (2) years of age shall not use pillows or filled comforters. 

 

H.  Pillows, when used for children over two (2) years of age, shall be assigned for individual use and covered with 

pillowcases. 

 

I.  Mattresses, when used, shall be covered with a waterproof material that can be cleaned and sanitized. 
 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-47. Sleeping and Resting Requirements. 

 

A.  Infants shall be placed on their backs when sleeping or napping unless otherwise ordered by a written statement 

signed by the child’s physician. 

 

B.  An infant, toddler, or preschool child who falls asleep in a play space other than his/her own crib, cot, mat, or 

bed shall be moved promptly to his/her designated sleeping space if the safety or comfort of the infant, toddler, 
or preschool child is in question. 

 

C.  School age children shall be allowed to nap if needed, but not forced to do so. 
 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-48. Medication.  

A.  Administration of Medication. 

 

 

1.  Prescription and nonprescription medication shall be administered by a trained staff only in accordance 

with the following: 
 

a.  The provider’s written medication policies; and 

 

b.  Written authorization from the parent(s). 

 

2.  Medication shall be administered by a trained caregiver who is 18 years of age or older. 

 

3.  Nonprescription medication shall be administered by a caregiver who meets the requirements in 59-

27.D. 
 

4.  The caregiver may only administer prescription medications that are dispensed from a pharmacy and 

maintained in the original, labeled container. 
 

5.  Prescription medication shall only be administered to the child identified on the prescription label in 

accordance with the prescriber’s instructions pertaining to dosage, frequency, and manner of 
administration. 
 

6.  Outdated or expired medication shall not be administered to the child unless otherwise authorized by 

emergency personnel or the child’s physician for emergency purposes only. 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-45 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

B.  Receipt of Medication. 

 

1.  All providers that choose to administer medication shall meet the following upon receipt of 

medication: 
 

a.  Medication shall be labeled with the child’s first and last name, the name of the medication, 

the dosage amount and the time(s) to be given. 
 

b.  Nonprescription medication shall be in the original container with the direction label attached, 

and be consistent with the manufacturer's instructions.  
 

c.  A written authorization from the child’s parent shall be required for nonprescription and 

prescription medication and renewed after 10 business days.  
 

d.  A written authorization from the child’s physician and parent shall be required for long-term 

nonprescription and prescription medication taken longer than 10 business days. 
 

e.  All medications that are provided to the family day care home must match the medication 

listed on the written authorization from the child’s physician and parent.  
 

C.  Storage of Medication. 

 

1.  Medication shall be refrigerated when needed. 

 

2.  When medication is stored in a refrigerator used for food, the medications shall be stored together in a 

container or in a clearly defined area away from food. 
 

3.  Medication, except for those prescriptions designated otherwise by written physician's order, including 

refrigerated medication and staff's personal medication, shall be kept in a locked place or in a locked 
storage device.  
 
If a key is used for medication that is stored in a locked place, the key shall not be accessible to 
children. 
 

4. 

D.  Documentation of Medication Administration. 

 

1.  The provider or caregiver shall keep a record of medication given to children, which shall include the 

following: 
 

a.  First and last name of the child to whom medication was administered; 

 

b.  Amount and type of medication administered to the child; 

 

c.  The day and time the medication was administered to the child; 

 

d.  First and last name of the staff member administering the medication; 

 

e.  Any adverse reaction(s) to the medication; and 

 

f.  Any medication error(s). 

 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-46 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

E.  Parent Notification of Medication Administration. 

 
The provider or caregiver shall inform parents immediately of any adverse reactions to medication administered 
and any medication error. 
 

F.  The medication authorization shall be available to trained caregivers during the entire time it is effective. 

 

G.  The provider or caregiver must return medication to parents within 14 days of the expiration of medication 

and/or the written authorization.  Medications that are not picked up by the parent(s) within 14 days must be 
disposed of by the provider according to their medication policies. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-49. Topical Skin Products. 
 
A.  When topical skin products such as sunscreen, diaper ointment and lotion, oral teething medicine, and insect 

repellant are used, the following requirements shall be met: 

 

1.  Written parent authorization noting any known adverse reactions shall be obtained at least annually; 

 

2.  The product shall be in the original container and, if provided by the parent, labeled with the child’s 

name; 

 
3.  Manufacturer’s instructions for application shall be followed; and 
 
4.  Parents shall be informed immediately of any adverse reaction. 
 

B.  The product does not need to be kept locked, but shall be inaccessible to children. 

 

C.  Caregivers without medication administration training may apply the product unless it is a prescription 

medication, in which case the storing and administration must meet prescription medication requirements of this 
chapter. 

 

D.  The product shall not be used beyond the expiration date of the product. 

 

E.  Sunscreen shall have a minimum sunburn protection factor (SPF) of 15. 
 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-50. Smoking and Prohibited Substances. 
 
The provider shall ensure that: 

 
A.  No person smokes: 

 

1. 

2. 

Indoors while children are in care,  
 
In a vehicle when children are transported, or 
 

3.  Outdoors in an area occupied by children. 

 

 
B.  No caregiver is under the effects of medication that impairs functioning, alcohol, or illegal drugs. 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-47 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-51. Swimming and Wading Activities. 
 
A.  The level of supervision by caregivers required in § 59-37 and the point system as outlined in § 59-38 shall be 

maintained while the children are participating in swimming or wading activities. 
 

B.  The provider shall annually obtain: 

 
1.  Written permission from the parent of each child who participates in swimming or wading activities, 

and 
 

2.  A written statement from the parent advising of a child’s swimming skills before the child is allowed 

in water above the child’s shoulder height. 

 

C.  Caregivers shall have a system for accounting for all children in the water. 

 

D.  Outdoor swimming activities shall occur only during daylight hours. 

 

E.  When one or more children are in water that is more than two (2) feet deep in a pool, lake, or other swimming 

area on or off the premises of the family day care home: 

 
1.  A minimum of at least two (2) caregivers shall be present and able to supervise the children; and 

 

2.  An individual currently certified in basic water rescue, community water safety, water safety 

instruction, or lifeguarding shall be on duty supervising the children participating in swimming or 
wading activities at all times.  The certification shall be obtained from an organization such as, but not 
limited to, the American Red Cross, the YMCA, or the Boy Scouts. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
 
§ 59-52. Drowning Hazards. 
 
A.  Access to the water in aboveground swimming pools shall be prevented by locking and securing the ladder in 

place or storing the ladder in a place inaccessible to children. 

 
B.  Portable wading pools without integral filter systems shall: 

 

1.  Be emptied after use by each group of children, rinsed, and filled with clean water, or more frequently 

as necessary; and 
 

2.  When not in use during the family day care home’s hours of operation, be emptied, sanitized, and 

stored in a position to keep them clean and dry. 
 

C.  Portable wading pools shall not be used by children who are not potty trained. 

 

D.  Bathtubs, buckets, and other containers of liquid accessible to children shall be emptied immediately after use. 

 

E.  Hot tubs, spas, and whirlpools shall: 

 

 

1.  Not be used by children in care, and 

 

2.  Be covered with safety covers while children are in care. 

59-48 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-53. Transportation and Field Trips. 
 
A.  Written Permission for Transportation and Field Trips. 

 

1.  General written permission shall be obtained from the parent of each child for the provider to take the 
child off the premises of the family day care home. The general written permission shall be on a form 
that lists regularly scheduled trips (e.g., library, store, playground) and the driver, if the child is to be 
transported. 
 

2.  Special written permission shall be obtained from the parent of each child for the provider to take the 

child on special field trips (those not regularly scheduled). The written special permission shall specify 
destination, duration of trip, and driver, if the child is to be transported. 

 

B.  Requirements for Drivers. 

 

1.  Drivers must:  

 

 

 

a.  Be 18 years of age or older; and 

b.  Submit a current driving record that discloses any moving traffic violation that 
occurred five (5) years prior to or during employment or assignment as a driver. 

2.  The provider shall ensure that during transportation of children the driver has: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.  A valid driver’s license; 
 
b.  The name, address, and telephone number of the family day care home; 

c.  A copy of the parent’s written permission to transport the child; 

d.  A copy of each child’s emergency care information as required in § 59-24.E.2.b; 

e.  Allergy care plan and information as required in § 59-24.E.2.b.vi; 

f.  Emergency supplies as required in § 59-32.A; and 

g.  A mechanism for making telephone calls to emergency responders and parents such as a 

cellular phone. 

C.  Requirements for Vehicles. 

 

The provider shall ensure that the vehicle used for transportation: 

 

1.  Meets the safety standards set by the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles; 

 

2. 

Is kept in satisfactory condition to assure the safety of children; 

3. 

Is licensed and insured according to state law; 

4.  Was manufactured for the purpose of transporting people seated in an enclosed area; and 

 

 

 

5.  Has seats that are attached to the floor. 

59-49 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

 

D.  Requirements for Transportation. 

 

The provider shall ensure that during transportation of children: 

 

1.  Each child is in an individual care seat or individual and appropriate restraint in accordance with 

Virginia law; 

2.  Each child’s arms, legs, and head remain inside the vehicle; 

3.  Doors are closed properly and locked unless locks were not installed by the manufacturer of the 

vehicle; 

4.  No child is left unattended inside or outside a vehicle; and 

 

 

 

 

5.  Each child boards and leaves the vehicle from the curbside of the street. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-54. Animals and Pets. 
 
A.  A pet or animal present at the home, indoors or outdoors, shall be in good health and show no evidence of 

carrying any disease. 
 

B.  A maximum of three (3) dogs and/or cats shall be permitted. 

 

C.  Dogs or cats, where allowed, shall be vaccinated for rabies and shall be treated for fleas, ticks, or worms as 

needed.  Dogs past the age of six (6) months must be licensed. 

 

D.  The provider shall maintain documentation of the current rabies vaccination. 

 

E.  Caregivers shall closely supervise children when children are exposed to animals. 

 

F.  Children shall be instructed on safe procedures to follow when in close proximity to animals, e.g., not to 

provoke or startle them or remove their food. 

 
G.  Animal litter boxes, toys, food dishes, and water dishes shall be inaccessible to children. 
 
H.  All animal excrement shall be removed promptly, disposed of properly, and, if indoors, the soiled area cleaned. 
 
I.  Family pets shall not be allowed on any surfaces where food is prepared or served. 

 

J.  Animals that have shown aggressive behavior shall not be kept in the home or on the grounds. 

 

K.  Monkeys, ferrets, reptiles, psittacine birds (birds of the parrot family), or wild or dangerous animals shall not be 

in areas accessible to children during the hours children are in care. 

 
(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 
§ 59-55. Nighttime Care. 
 
A.  For nighttime care during which a child sleeps more than two (2) hours, the following is required: 

 

1.  A child shall have a rest area that meets the requirements of § 59-45; 

 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-50 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                             FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES 

2.  An infant shall have an individual crib that meets the requirements of § 59-45; and 

 

3.  Linens shall be provided that meet the requirements in § 59-46. 
 

B.  For children in nighttime care, quiet activities and experiences shall be available immediately before bedtime. 

 

C.  Providers shall establish a bedtime schedule for a child in consultation with the child’s parent. 

 

D.  Separate sleeping and dressing areas shall be provided for children of the opposite sex over six (6) years of age. 
 
E.  Each child shall have a toothbrush, and a comb or hair brush assigned for individual use. 
 
F.  Bath towels and washcloths, when used, shall be laundered as needed, but at least weekly. 

 

G.  A child shall have a routine that encourages good personal hygiene practices including bathing (if needed) and 

teeth brushing. 

 

H.  Caregivers shall remain awake until all children are asleep. 

 

I.  A baby monitor shall be used to monitor the safety of the sleeping child if the caregiver is not sleeping in the 

room with the child or in a room adjacent to the room where the child is sleeping. 

 

(Ord. No. 19-02, 3-16-19, effective 7-1-19) 
 

 

 
 

 
 

Code Updated March 2019 
 
 

59-51 

