 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

Chapter 68 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING ORDINANCE 

Article I.  In General 

§68-1.  Purpose 
§68-2. Definitions 
§68-3.  Effective Date 

Article II.  Program Structure 

§68-4.  Project Eligibility 
§68-5.  Loan; Program Fees; Reporting; Program Guide 
§68-6.  Assessment; Recordation of Lien; County Expenses 
§68-7.  Role of the County; Limitation of Liability 
§68-8.  Additional Provisions 

ARTICLE I. 
IN GENERAL 

§68-1. Purpose 

The  County  finds  that  facilitating  improvements  to  certain  types  of  non-residential  buildings,  if  such 
improvements  involve  renewable  energy  production  and  distribution,  increased  energy  efficiency,  or 
increased  water  usage  efficiency,  will  promote  the  general  welfare  and  help  the  County  reach  its 
Community Energy Plan goals. 

Therefore, the purpose of this Chapter is to create an "Arlington County Commercial Property Assessed 
Clean Energy (C-PACE) Financing Program," in accordance with the Commonwealth of Virginia’s Clean 
Energy Financing Law (§ 15.2-958.3 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended). The C-PACE program 
will  facilitate  loans  made  by  qualified  lenders  to  certain  non-residential  property  owners  to  finance 
renewable energy production and distribution facilities, energy efficiency improvements, or water usage 
efficiency improvements. Subject to the limitations set forth in this Ordinance and other applicable laws, 
including,  without  limitation,  the  Clean  Energy  Financing  Law,  each such  loan,  inclusive  of principal, 
interest and any financed fees, costs or expenses, will be (i) repaid through special assessment payments 
and (ii) secured by a voluntary special assessment lien on the property that is the subject of such loan. 

Code Updated 11-2017 
 

68-1 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

In furtherance of the C-PACE program, the County, through this Ordinance and subject to the limitations 
set forth herein and other applicable laws, including, without limitation, the Clean Energy Financing Law, 
authorizes each qualified lender to (i) file and record such liens on behalf of the County, (ii) assign such 
liens on behalf of the County, (iii) amend such liens from time to time, and (iv) administer, in all respects, 
the loans respectively evidenced by such liens; provided, however, for the avoidance of doubt, that the 
County shall have no obligations with respect to the Program, or any loan, assessment, lien, or transaction 
related thereto, other than as expressly set forth in this Ordinance. 

§68-2. Definitions 

"Administrator" means the person or entity contracted in writing by the County to assist with the planning 
and administration of the Program. With prior written approval from Program Manager, which approval 
shall be in Program Manager's sole and absolute discretion, Administrator may, in a writing signed by 
Administrator, delegate one or more of its administrative duties specified herein or in the Program Guide 
to a person or entity subcontracted by Administrator. 

"Assessment Payments" means the periodic repayments of the Loan Amount by Property Owner, due and 
payable to Lender in such amounts and at such times as described in the Financing Agreement and the Lien. 

"Board" means the Arlington County Board. 

"Clean Energy Financing Law" means § 15.2-958.3 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended. 

"Commonwealth" means "Commonwealth of Virginia." 

"Contractor" means any person or entity that (i) for a set price, commission, or fee, undertakes to bid upon, 
or accepts or offers to accept, any order or contract to perform or manage, in whole or in part, any Project 
under this Ordinance, (ii) is validly licensed or otherwise permitted under applicable law to provide such 
service,  (iii)  has  attended  Program  training  provided  by  Administrator,  (iv)  has  been  approved  as  a 
registered contractor by Administrator and (v) is either listed in the Program Guide or identified in a publicly 
available list maintained by Administrator. 

"County Attorney" means the County Attorney of the County. 

"C-PACE" means Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy. 

"Eligible Building" means any building located, or to be located, on Eligible Property, including all existing 
and future improvements upon such building, regardless of such building's use or whether such building is 
existing, under construction, or to be constructed; provided, however, that the term "Eligible Building" shall 
not include any (i) residential dwelling with fewer than five dwelling units or (ii) condominium project as 
defined in §55-79.2 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended. 

"Eligible Improvement" means any improvement, construction, equipping, installation or modification of 
or to, as the case may be, an Eligible Building, if designed to (i) facilitate renewable energy production and 
distribution, (ii) increase energy efficiency, or (iii) increase water usage efficiency. 

"Eligible Property" means real estate located within the County, regardless of whether such real estate is 
subject to taxation by the County. 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Code Updated 11-2017 
 

68-2 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

"Financing Agreement" means a written agreement, as may be amended, modified, or supplemented from 
time to time, between Property Owner and Lender, regarding matters related to the extension and repayment 
of  a  Loan  to  finance  a  Project,  including,  without  limitation,  (i)  the  Loan  Amount,  (ii)  the  repayment 
schedule, (iii) the interest rate, (iv) Program Fees, and (v) other fees, costs or expenses charged to Property 
Owner. Proposed terms and conditions for such agreement are found in the Draft Financing Agreement 
attached to, and made part of, §68-8A of this Ordinance. Property Owner and Lender may choose to deviate 
from such terms and conditions, or use such other form of financing agreement that Property Owner and 
Lender  may agree  upon;  provided, however, that each Financing Agreement  shall include Sections 2.1 
(Assessment and Lien), 2.2 (Loan Terms and Assessment Payments), 5.1 (The Act, the Ordinance and the 
Program Guide), 5.2 (General), 5.10 (Assignment of Lien and Participation Interests), 7.5 (Governing Law), 
7.7 (Jurisdiction) and 7.11 (The County) of the Draft Financing Agreement, with variations permitted to 
such sections only to the extent that such variations are minor, non-substantive and stylistic to allow such 
sections to conform to the agreement used by Lender and Property Owner.  In the case of a conflict between 
the terms of a Lien and the terms of the applicable Financing Agreement, the terms of such Lien shall 
control. 

"Lender" means a source of financing that has been approved, by Administrator, as a qualified lender in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Program Guide. Each such qualified lender may make Loans to 
eligible Property Owners to finance Projects under the Program. 

"Lien" means a voluntary special assessment lien duly Recorded against an Eligible Property to secure 
Assessment Payments. Each Lien (i) shall run with the land, and those portions of Assessment Payments 
secured by such Lien that have not yet become due are not eliminated by foreclosure of a property tax lien, 
and (ii) shall have the same priority status as a real property tax lien, except that such Lien shall have priority 
over any previously recorded mortgage or deed of trust lien on the Property only if a written subordination 
agreement is executed by the holder of each such previously recorded lien. Such subordination agreement 
shall be Recorded with the Lien, and shall be in a form and substance acceptable to the prior lienholder in 
its sole and exclusive discretion. Prior to the Recording of any Lien, Property Owner must submit to Lender 
evidence that: (i) Property Owner is current on payments on all loans secured by a mortgage or deed of trust 
lien on the Eligible Property and on property tax payments to the   County, 
(ii) Property Owner is not insolvent or subject to bankruptcy proceedings, and (iii) Property Owner's title 
to the Eligible Property is not in dispute. 

"Loan" means a loan from Lender to Property Owner to finance a Project, as described in a Financing 
Agreement. 

"Loan Amount" means the aggregate amount of a Loan, inclusive of principal, interest and any financed 
fees, costs or expenses, all as provided for in the Financing Agreement. 

"Loan  Document"  means  a  Financing  Agreement,  a  Lien,  or  any  amendment  thereof,  or  any  other 
document, agreement or instrument executed in connection with a Loan, a Financing Agreement, a Lien, 
or any amendment thereof. 

"Program" means the C-PACE program established by the County, through this Ordinance, in accordance 
with the Clean Energy Financing Law. 

"Program Fees" means those fees and expenses that shall be specified in the Program Guide; provided, 
however, that the County reserves the right to revise the nature or amount of such fees at any time; provided 
further, however, that any such revision shall not apply to any Program Fees specified in an executed 
Financing Agreement. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Code Updated 11-2017 
 

68-3 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

"Program Guide" means the detailed description of Program requirements, which shall include, without 
limitation,  (i)  examples  of  Eligible  Improvements,  (ii)  criteria  or  requirements  for  the  designation  of 
Contractors and Lenders, (iii) criteria or requirements for the eligibility of Property Owners and Projects, 
(iv) all fees, costs and expenses of the Program, including those of Administrator, (v) certain disclosures to 
Property  Owners  regarding  the  Program,  and  (vi)  the  required  provisions  set  forth  in  §68-8E  of  this 
Ordinance. 

"Program Manager" means County Manager or such person designated in writing by County Manager to 
run the Program and act as liaison with Administrator; provided, however, that only County Manager shall 
be authorized to enter into any contract on behalf of the County in respect of the Program, and any such 
contract shall be subject to Board approval. 

"Project" means the development of Eligible Improvements on an Eligible Building. 

"Property  Owner"  means  the  person  or  entity  that  holds  title  to  Eligible  Property,  together  with  its 
successors and permitted assigns, as to be described in a Financing Agreement. 

"Record" means "file and record in the land records of the County." 

"Savings-to-Investment  Ratio"  means  the  total  estimated  (or  projected)  energy  cost  savings  over  the 
effective useful life of the Eligible Improvements, divided by the Loan Amount; provided that the foregoing 
definition may be further described or modified in the Program Guide. 

§68-3. Effective Date 

This Ordinance shall become effective as of November 18, 2017. 

ARTICLE II. PROGRAM STRUCTURE 

 

§68-4. Project Eligibility 

A. 

 
 
Prioritization: Administrator will process Project applications on a first come, first serve 
basis; provided, however, that all successful applicants must meet the income or property value eligibility 
requirements established under the Program Guide. 
 

Project Eligibility Notification: Administrator shall prepare and deliver to Property Owner 

B. 

a project eligibility notification and a project finance report that includes, if applicable, the Project’s 
Savings-to-Investment Ratio. 
 

C. 

Size Thresholds: The minimum Loan Amount that may be financed for each Project is fifty 

thousand dollars ($50,000). The maximum Loan Amount that may be financed for each Project is twenty-
five million dollars ($25,000,000). 
 
§68-5. Loan; Program Fees; Reporting; Program Guide 
 
Source of Loan; Financing Agreement: Loans may only be financed by Lenders. Each Loan must be made 
pursuant to a Financing Agreement. 
 

Repayment and Administration of Loan: Loans will be repaid by Property Owner through 

A. 

Assessment Payments. Upon assignment of the Lien to Lender, as described in §68-6B hereof, 
 

68-4 

 
Code Updated 11-2017 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

 
 
Property Owner shall make all such Assessment Payments directly to Lender pursuant to the Financing 
Agreement, and Lender shall be responsible, subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Financing 
Agreement, for all billing, collection, enforcement and administrative duties in respect of each of the Loan, 
the Assessment Payments and the Lien. 
 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

B. 

Program Fees: The Program will be self-financed through Program Fees charged to 

C. 

participating Property Owners that are designed to cover the costs to design and administer the Program, 
including the compensation of Administrator.  Lender shall collect the Program Fees from Property Owner at 
Loan closing, and shall remit any such Program Fees so collected to Administrator within ten (10) days of 
the date of such closing, without requiring demand or notice from Administrator. 
 

Reporting: No less frequently than semi-annually, each Lender shall provide to the County 

a written report with summary information regarding the Loan portfolio performance of such Lender, 
including the (i) types and amounts of Eligible Improvements financed, (ii) locations of Projects, 
(iii) number of Loans outstanding, (iv) overall aggregate dollar amount outstanding under such Loans, (v) 
average initial Loan Amount, (vi) number of Loans with delinquent Assessment Payments and (vii) number 
of Loans foreclosed upon to date and the number of pending foreclosures. 
 

D. 

Program Guide: The Program Guide and any subsequent amendments thereto shall 

A. 

become effective only (i) to the extent that the Program Guide and such amendments do not contravene this 
Ordinance and (ii) after review by the County Attorney and written approval by Program Manager. The 
Program Guide, including any amendments thereto, shall contain the required provisions set forth in §68-
8E of this Ordinance. 
 
§68-6. Assessment; Recordation of Lien; County Expenses 
 

Notification of Closing: Upon the financial closing of a Project, Lender will promptly provide 

B. 

notice thereof to each of Program Manager and Administrator, which notice shall include: (i) a statement of the Loan 
Amount, (ii) a copy of the Financing Agreement executed by Property Owner and Lender, (iii) a written 
subordination agreement with each holder of a prior mortgage or deed of trust lien on the Eligible Property, and (iv) 
evidence that (A) Property Owner is current on payments on loans secured by a mortgage or deed of trust lien on the 
Property and on property tax payments to the County, (B) Property Owner is not insolvent or subject to bankruptcy 
proceedings, and (C) Property Owner's title to the Eligible Property is not in dispute. 
 

Recordation of Lien; Assignment: Upon receipt of such notice in §68-6A hereof, Lender, 
as authorized by the County for such purposes, shall promptly Record the Certificate of Levy and Lien of 
Special Assessment on behalf of the County, a form of which is attached to, and made part   of, §68-8B of 
this Ordinance. Promptly thereafter, Lender, as authorized by the County for such purposes, shall assign 
the Lien from the County to Lender, to cause Lender to be named as the holder of the Lien in the land 
records of the County, by Recording an Assignment of Special Assessment Lien, a form of which is 
attached to, and made part of, §68-8C of this Ordinance. Such assignment shall include only the County's 
right, title and interest in and to the Assessment Payments and the Lien, and the County shall retain all of 
its other rights and remedies, including any special powers of enforcement or collection to which the 
County, by virtue of its status as a political subdivision of the Commonwealth, is entitled or empowered to 
exercise under applicable laws of the Commonwealth. 
 

Amendment of Lien: The Lien may, in Lender’s sole discretion, be amended, after Lender 
disburses the Loan. To effect such amendment, Lender will Record a  Confirmation and Amendment   of 

C. 

 

 
Code Updated 11-2017 
 

68-5 

 
D. 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

 
 
Special Assessment Lien, a form of which is attached to, and made part of, §68-8D of this Ordinance; 
provided, however, that such amendment shall be permitted only to the extent amendments are permitted 
under the applicable Financing Agreement. 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

Preparation of Documentation; Expenses: Lender shall be responsible for (i) preparing all 

documentation in respect of the Loan, the Financing Agreement, the Lien, and any assignment or 
amendment of the Lien, (ii) presenting such documentation to the County prior to the Recording of any 
Lien or any assignment or amendment thereof, and (iii) reimbursing the County for any reasonable out-of-
pocket expenses incurred by the County in connection with the review, preparation or Recording of such 
documentation. Lender shall make such reimbursement within ten (10) days upon written demand from the 
County. Lender may, if provided for in the Financing Agreement, recover from Property Owner the 
amount of any such reimbursements actually paid to the County. 
 
§68-7. Role of the County; Limitation of Liability 
 

By  executing  a  Financing  Agreement  or  any  other  Loan  Document,  or  otherwise  participating  in  the 
Program, each Property Owner, Lender, Contractor or other party or participant acknowledges and agrees, 
for  the  benefit  of  the  County  and  as  a  condition  of  participation  in  the  Program,  that:  (i)  the  County 
undertakes no obligation under or in respect of any Loan Document or the Program Guide, and no implied 
covenants or obligations of the County shall be read into either, (ii) regardless of any default by Property 
Owner, the County has no obligation to make Assessment Payments to any Lender, or any other payments 
in respect of any Loan, including, without limitation, any fees, expenses and other charges described in any 
Loan Document, (iii) none of any Loan, Assessment Payment, Lien or other obligation arising from any 
Loan Document, the Act, or the Ordinance shall be backed by (A) any credit of the County, (B) any credit 
of the Commonwealth or its political subdivisions, including, without limitation, the County, or (C) any 
taxes or governmental funds, (iv) none of any Loan, Assessment Payment, Lien or other obligation arising 
from any Loan Document, the Act, or the Ordinance shall constitute an indebtedness within the meaning of 
any  constitutional  or  statutory  debt  limitation  or  restriction,  (v)  the  County  has  not  made  any 
representations, financial or otherwise, in respect of Borrower, the Property or the Project, (vi) the County 
makes no representation or warranty as to, and assumes no responsibility with respect to, the accuracy or 
completeness  of  any  Lien,  or  any  assignment  or  amendment  thereof,  (vii)  the  County  assumes  no 
responsibility or liability in respect of any Project, or the planning, construction or operation thereof, (viii) 
each Property Owner, Lender and Contractor shall, upon request, provide the County with any information 
associated with the Project or the Loan that is reasonably necessary to confirm that the Project or Loan 
meets all requirements of the Act, the Ordinance and the Program Guide and (ix) each Property Owner, 
Lender, Contractor and other participant under the Program shall comply with all applicable requirements 
of the Act, the Ordinance and the Program Guide. 

A. 

Draft Financing Agreement: Each Financing Agreement shall be in substantially the form 

 
§68-8. Additional Provisions 
 
 
below, with such additions, deletions or alterations as permitted by this Ordinance. 
 
 
Lien of Special Assessment shall be in the form below, with only minor variations permitted to complete the 
form. 
 
 
Lien shall be in the form below, with only minor variations permitted to complete the form. 

Form of Assignment of Special Assessment Lien: Each Assignment of Special Assessment 

Form of Certificate of Levy and Lien of Special Assessment: Each Certificate of Levy and 

B. 

C. 

 

 
Code Updated 11-2017 
 

68-6 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

D. 

Form of Confirmation and Amendment of Special Assessment Lien: Each Confirmation and 

 
 
Amendment of Special Assessment Lien shall be in the form below, with only minor variations permitted 
to complete the form. 
 
 
thereto, shall contain the following provisions: 
 

Required Program Guide Provisions: The Program Guide, including any amendments 

E. 

"This Program Guide (this "Guide") has been prepared pursuant to Chapter 68 of the 
Arlington  County  Code  (the  "Ordinance"),  for  purposes  of  providing  a  more  detailed 
description of the requirements applicable to the Arlington County Commercial Property 
Assessed Clean Energy (C-PACE) Financing Program (the "Program"). This Guide and 
all  provisions  hereof  are  subject  to  the  Ordinance  in  all  respects,  including,  without 
limitation, the provisions of the Ordinance governing the amendment of this Guide. In the 
case  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  this  Guide  and  the  provisions  of  the 
Ordinance, the provisions of the Ordinance shall control." 

 

"THIS  GUIDE  IS  ONLY  A  REFERENCE  DOCUMENT,  AND  CREATES  NO  LEGAL 
RIGHTS  IN  FAVOR  OF  ANY  PROPERTY  OWNER,  LENDER,  CAPITAL  PROVIDER, 
CONTRACTOR OR ANY OTHER PERSON, NOR DOES IT IMPOSE ANY LEGAL DUTY 
OR OBLIGATION ON THE COUNTY OF ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA." 

F. 

Narrow Construction; No Precatory Sections: This Ordinance shall be narrowly construed. 

 
 
All portions of this Ordinance, including, without limitation, §68-1 (Purpose), shall have full regulatory 
effect and are not precatory. 
 

 

 

 
Code Updated 11-2017 
 

68-7 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

DRAFT FINANCING AGREEMENT1 

[PROJECT ADDRESS] 

THIS FINANCING AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is made as       of t h e  

  
("Borrower"), and [  

, 20  

, by and between [  

], a [  

  ], a [  
], with an address at [  

], with an address a t  [  

] ("Lender"). 

day o f  
] 

RECITALS 

1. 

The Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Commonwealth") has authorized its localities to 
establish commercial property assessed clean energy programs under Section 15.2-958.3 (the "Act") of the 
Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Code"). In conformance with the Act, the County of Arlington,  
Virginia  (the  "County")  has  (i)   enacted  [  
]  (the  "Ordinance")  to   create  the 
Arlington Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy (C-PACE) Financing Program (the "Program"), 
the requirements of which are set forth in the Ordinance and the Program guidelines (such guidelines, as 
established  and amended  from  time  to  time  pursuant  to  the  procedures  set  forth  in  the  Ordinance, the 
"Program Guide"), and (ii) selected an administrator to facilitate the Program ("Administrator"). 

2. 

Borrower owns all that certain real property together with all improvements, buildings and 
other structures thereon and appurtenances thereto, lying in the County and commonly known as [Address], 
and more fully described in Exhibit [ ] (the "Property"). In accordance with the Ordinance and the Program 
Guide, Borrower is constructing improvements upon or renovating the Property to increase energy or water 
usage efficiency or installing a renewable energy production or distribution system to service the Property 
(the "Project"), which Project shall be permanently affixed to such Property. 

3. 

Pursuant to the Act and the Ordinance, lenders may provide loans or advances directly to 
property owners participating in the Program. Accordingly, Borrower has applied for financing for the 
Project through a loan of funds from Lender, and Lender desires to provide to Borrower a loan of funds in 
the amount  of [  
]), inclusive of  principal, interest 
and any financed fees, costs or expenses provided for herein (including, without limitation, the Program 
Fees), to finance the Project (as further described in Section 2.2 herein, the "Loan"). 

] AND 00/100 DOLLARS ($[  

4. 

Pursuant to the Act and the Ordinance, Borrower shall repay the Loan through a special 
assessment secured by a special assessment lien against the Property. After the execution of this Agreement, 
Lender, acting on the County's behalf as authorized by the Ordinance, will file and record such assessment 
and lien in the land records of the County, and Lender, acting on the County's behalf as authorized by the 
Ordinance, will subsequently assign the County's right, title and interest in and to such assessment and lien 
to Lender, who shall administer the Loan in all respects. 

NOW THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I – DEFINITIONS 

1.1 

Definitions. As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings herein specified 

unless the context otherwise requires. 

1 This form contemplates all loan proceeds being advanced in a single disbursement. Add additional provisions as necessary for 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Code Updated 11-2017 
 

68-8 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

a drawdown loan. 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

 

 
Code Updated 11-2017 
 

68-3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

"Act" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

"Administrator" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

"Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. 

"Assessment Payments" means periodic repayments of the Loan made by Borrower to Lender. 

"Assignee" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.10(a). 

"Borrower" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. 

"CERCLA" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(a). 

"Code" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

"Commencement Date" shall mean [  

]. 

"Commonwealth" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

"Consent" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a)(v). 

"County" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

"Credits or Incentives" means (i) any and all environmental benefits, air quality credits, emissions 
reductions, offsets and allowances, any renewable energy credits or similar credits or certificates and any 
other tradable energy or environmental related commodity produced by or associated with the Project and 
(ii)  any  and  all  financial  incentives,  from  whatever  source,  related  to  the    construction,  ownership  or 
operation of the Project, including, without limitation, (A) federal, state or local tax credits, (B) any other 
financial incentives in the form of credits, reductions, or allowances that are applicable to a local, state or 
federal income taxation obligation and (C) other grants, rebates or subsidies, including utility incentive 
programs. 

"Environmental Law" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(a). 

"Event of Default" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1. 

"Event of Unenforceability" means any proposed or final legislative or administrative action, any 
executive decree, order or similar pronouncement or any final judicial order or decree that the Assessment 
Payments or the Lien are not valid and enforceable under the laws of the Commonwealth, or any unstayed 
injunctive relief, the effect of which would be to prevent servicing or collection of the Assessment Payments 
or the Lien. 

"GAAP" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2. 

"Holder" means a holder, beneficiary or secured party with respect to a mortgage, deed of trust, 

security agreement or other similar instrument, as applicable. 

"Indemnified Person" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.8. 

2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

"Lender" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. 

"Lien" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1. 

"Loan" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals, as further described in Section 2.2. 

"Mortgage" means a mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement or other similar instrument, as 

applicable. 

"Ordinance" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

"Participant" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.10(b). 

"Permits" means all permits, consents, approvals and authorizations by any governmental body 
necessary for (i) the construction of the Project, (ii) the connection and operation of the Project, including, 
without limitation, all utilities necessary to service the Project, and (iii) the construction and use of all 
roadways, driveways, curb cuts and other vehicular or other access to and egress from the Project. 

"Polluting Substance" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(a). 

"Program" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

"Program Fees"  means [  

], as provided in the Program Guide.   The    Program Fees 

shall be financed as part of the Loan and repaid through Assessment Payments. 

"Program Guide" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

"Project" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

"Property" shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

"RCRA" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(a). 

"Record" means "file and record in the land records of the County." 

"Release Parcel" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.12. 

"Transaction Documents" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(b). 

1.2 

Rules of Interpretation. 

(a) 

The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural 

forms of the terms defined. 

(b) 

The word "or" is not exclusive. 

(c)  Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding 

masculine, feminine and neuter forms. 

(d) 

The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed 

by the phrase "without limitation." 

3 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

(e) 

Accounting terms have the meanings assigned to them by GAAP, as applied by 

the accounting entity to which they refer. 

(f) 

The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the 

word "shall." 

(g) 

Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise  (i)  any  definition  of  or  reference  to  any 
agreement,  instrument  or  other  document  herein  shall  be  construed  as  referring  to  such  agreement, 
instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject 
to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or therein), 

(ii) any reference herein to any person shall be construed to include such person’s successors and  assigns, 
(iii) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder," and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to 
this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (iv) all references herein to Articles, 
Sections and Exhibits shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits to, this Agreement, 
and (v) any reference to any law or regulation herein shall, unless otherwise specified, refer  to such law or 
regulation  as  amended,  modified  or  supplemented  from  time  to  time  (except  to  the  extent  otherwise 
provided herein). 

 

 

 

 

 

(h) 

References to "days" shall mean calendar days, unless the term "Business Days" 
shall be used. References to a time of day shall mean such time in New York, New York, unless otherwise 
specified. 

(i) 

This Agreement is the result of negotiations between, and has been reviewed by 
Borrower, Lender and their respective counsel. Accordingly, this Agreement shall be deemed to be the 
product of the parties thereto, and no ambiguity shall be construed in favor of or against Borrower or Lender. 

ARTICLE II - THE FINANCING 

2.1 

Assessment and Lien. The terms of the special assessment and the special assessment lien 
shall be set forth in the Certificate of Levy and Lien of Special Assessment (the "Lien"), substantially in 
the form attached hereto as Exhibit [ ], which shall have a payment schedule attached thereto.  After the 
execution of this Agreement, Lender, acting on behalf of the County pursuant to the Ordinance, will Record 
the Lien against the Property. Promptly thereafter, Lender, acting on behalf of the County pursuant to the 
Ordinance, shall assign solely the County's right, title and interest in and to the Lien to Lender by Recording 
an Assignment of Special Assessment Lien, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit [  ].  Such 
assignment shall include only the County's right, title and interest in and to the Assessment Payments and 
the Lien, and the County shall retain all of its other rights and remedies, including any special powers of 
enforcement or collection to which the County, by  virtue of its status as a political subdivision of the 
Commonwealth, is entitled or empowered to exercise under applicable laws of the Commonwealth. Upon 
such assignment, Lender shall be responsible, subject to and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, 
for  all  billing,  collection,  enforcement  and  administrative  duties  in  respect  of  each  of  the  Loan,  the 
Assessment  Payments  and  the  Lien.  BORROWER  HEREBY  ACKNOWLEDGES  AND  AGREES 
THAT IT SHALL MAKE ALL PAYMENTS DUE IN RESPECT OF EACH OF THE LOAN, THE 
ASSESSMENT PAYMENTS AND THE LIEN TO LENDER, AND NOT TO THE COUNTY OR 
ADMINSTRATOR. The Lien may, in Lender’s sole discretion, but subject to the terms of this Agreement, 
be amended after Lender disburses the Loan. To effect such amendment, Lender, acting on behalf of the 
County pursuant to the Ordinance, will Record a Confirmation and Amendment of Special Assessment 
Lien, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit [    ],  which  shall  include  the  final  repayment  
schedule.   Lender shall be responsible for (i) 

4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

preparing  all  documentation  in  respect  of  the  Loan,  this  Agreement,  the  Lien,  and  any  assignment  or 
amendment of any of the foregoing documentation, (ii) presenting such documentation to the County prior 
to the Recording of any Lien or any assignment or amendment thereof, and (iii) reimbursing the County for 
any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the County in connection with the review, preparation 
or Recording of such documentation. Lender shall make such reimbursement within ten (10) days upon 
written demand from the County. [Lender may, if and as provided for in this Agreement, recover from 
Borrower the amount of any such reimbursements actually paid to the County, as well as any other costs 
and expenses incurred by Lender in respect of the transactions contemplated herein.]2 

2.2 

] AND [    ]/100 DOLLARS  ($[  

Loan  Terms  and  Assessment  Payments.  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Loan  by  making 
Assessment Payments, as described in the Lien, as may be amended to the extent permitted under the 
Ordinance and the terms hereof, and set forth in Exhibit [  ].  The Loan shall be in the aggregate amount of 
[  
   ]), inclusive of principal, interest    and  any 
financed fees, costs or expenses provided for herein (including, without limitation, Program Fees). Such 
financed fees, costs and expenses shall be disbursed to Lender on the closing date of the Loan, and Lender 
shall remit any Program Fees so collected to Administrator, without requiring notice or demand, within ten 
(10) days of such closing date. Any interest, fees, costs or expenses provided for herein that are not financed 
as part of the Loan, including, without   limitation, [  
     ],3 shall be billed  and collected    separately 
by Lender, and shall not be collected through Assessment Payments. The initial principal portion of the 
Loan shall be in the amount  of [  
]). 
From and after the Commencement Date, interest on the outstanding balance of the principal portion of the 
Loan shall accrue at a per annum rate    of [  
 ] percent ([    ]%), [computed on the basis    of 
].4       Assessment Payments are  due  and  payable  in  equal  installments  over  a     term  of [ 
  
 
 ] ([    ]) years, at such times and in such amounts as set forth in Exhibit [    ].  In the event of 
any conflict between the payment schedule attached to the Lien, as may be amended to the extent permitted 
under the Ordinance and the terms hereof, and the payment schedule set forth in Exhibit [  ],  the payment 
schedule attached to the Lien shall control. 

] AND [    ]/100 DOLLARS ($[  

2.3 

Prepayment [and Penalties]. 

[INSERT prepayment provision to be negotiated between Borrower and Lender]. 

2.4  Interest Accrued on Delinquent Payments. Delinquent Assessment Payments shall incur  a 
late payment penalty   of [  
] percent ([    ]%)  of such amount, and interest shall     accrue  on 
delinquent  balances  (including  principal,  interest  and  fees),  until  paid  in  full,  at  the  lesser  of         [ 
 
]  percent  ([    ]%)  per  annum or  the  maximum  per  annum rate  permitted  by  law.    Any 
fractional part of a month in which any portion of any payment remains unpaid is considered equivalent to 
a whole month. Further, any partial installment payment will first be applied to the total accrued interest 
before being applied to outstanding principal. 

ARTICLE III - BORROWER'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 

Borrower represents and warrants to Lender as follows, which representations and warranties 

shall be true and correct as of the date hereof and at all times thereafter until the outstanding principal 

2 Add provisions to this Agreement as necessary to effect the recovery of Lender's costs and expenses from Borrower. 
3 Insert cross references that apply. For instance, as an example, one might cross-reference Section 2.4 herein for interest on 
delinquent payments. 
4 Insert desired interest calculation method. 

5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

balance of the Loan, all interest accrued thereon and all fees have been paid in full, or such obligations 
have been transferred or assigned as permitted under this Agreement: 

3.1 

Organization and Authority.  Borrower is a [  

], duly [incorporated/organized], 
validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the [Commonwealth/State]  of [  
] and 
all other jurisdictions where legally required in order to carry on its business. Borrower has all necessary 
power and authority to own its properties, conduct its business and enter into the transactions contemplated 
hereby. Borrower has the right to enter into and perform this Agreement, and the execution, delivery and 
performance of this Agreement and all other documents executed in connection herewith have been duly 
authorized and constitute valid and binding obligations of Borrower, each enforceable in accordance with 
its respective terms, and such execution, delivery and performance do not and will not contravene any other 
instrument or agreement binding on Borrower. Borrower has had for the previous [  
])  years (except as previously disclosed to  Lender in writing) the     legal name  and  form of business 
organization in the  state described above. Borrower’s chief executive office and     notice address, taxpayer 
identification number and any organizational identification number is as described with its execution of this 
Agreement  below.  Borrower  shall  notify  Lender  in  writing  at  least  thirty  (30)  days  before  changing 
Borrower’s legal name, state of organization, chief executive office location or organizational identification 
number. 

] 

([    

3.2 

Financial  Statements  and  Other  Data.  Borrower shall  (i)  maintain  books  and  records  in 
accordance  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  consistently  applied  ("GAAP")  and  prudent 
] ([    ]) days  after the  close  of each 
business  practice,  (ii) promptly provide  Lender,  within  [  
fiscal year of Borrower, and, upon Lender's request,    within [  
 
] ([    ]) days of the end   of each 
quarter of Borrower’s fiscal year, a copy of financial statements for Borrower, prepared in accordance with 
GAAP and (A) in the case of annual statements, audited by independent certified public accountants or (B) in 
the case of quarterly statements, certified by the chief financial officer of Borrower; provided, however, that 
for so long as Borrower is legally and timely filing annual and quarterly financial reports on Forms 10- K and 
10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission that are readily available to the public, the filing of such 
reports shall satisfy the foregoing financial statement reporting requirements for such entity and (iii) furnish 
to Lender all other financial information and reports and such other information as Lender may reasonably 
request concerning Borrower and its affairs, the Property or the Project.  Borrower represents and warrants 
that all information and financial statements at any time furnished by or on behalf of Borrower are accurate 
and reasonably reflect as of their respective dates, results of operations and the financial condition of Borrower 
or other entity they purport to cover. Credit and other information regarding Borrower or its affiliates, the 
Property  or  the  Project  may  be  disclosed  by  Lender  to  its  affiliates,  agents  and  potential  assignees, 
notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement that may purport to limit  or prohibit such disclosure. 

3.3 

No Litigation. There are no actions, suits or proceedings pending, or to the knowledge of 
Borrower threatened, against or affecting it that could materially adversely affect Borrower, any of its 
properties, its financial condition or the construction of the Project. 

3.4 

Clear Title. Borrower's title to the Property is not in dispute, and is free of encumbrances 

other than those subordinated permitted encumbrances set forth in Exhibit [    ]. 

3.5 

Compliance with Law. Borrower has complied with, and will continue to comply with, all 
applicable  laws,  statutes,  rules,  regulations  and  ordinances  binding,  in  any  jurisdiction,  on  Borrower, 
including, without limitation, all anti-money laundering laws and regulations. All Permits either (i) have 
been obtained, are final (i.e. not subject to any appeal periods and not subject to any pending appeals), are 
valid, are in full force and effect and have been complied with by Borrower in all respects or (ii) will be 
obtained, will be final (i.e. not subject to any appeal periods and not subject to any pending appeals), will 

6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

be valid, will be in full force and effect and Borrower will be in compliance therewith in all respects prior 
to Lender’s disbursing the Loan. Construction of the Project has complied and will comply with applicable 
zoning,  use,  building  or  other  applicable  codes,  laws,  regulations  and  ordinances  and  any  restrictive 
covenant affecting the Property. 

3.6 

Environmental Matters. 

(a) 

(b) 

The term "Polluting Substance" shall mean any hazardous, ignitable, corrosive, 
caustic,  reactive,  toxic,  or  polluting  waste  or  substance  including,  without 
limitation, any of the following: "hazardous waste" (as defined in the regulations 
adopted under RCRA, defined below), oil or petroleum products, chemical liquids 
or  solid,  liquid  or  gaseous  products,  asbestos,  polychlorinated  biphenyls, 
formaldehyde  compounds,  explosives,  radioactive  materials  or  any  other 
potentially harmful waste or substance regulated by Environmental Law. The term 
"Environmental Law" shall mean any federal, state or local statute, regulation, 
ordinance or decisional law pertaining to protection of the environment or to any 
Polluting Substance, including (without limiting the generality of the foregoing) 
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 
1980 ("CERCLA") and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 
("RCRA"), as any of them may be amended from time to time, with the regulations 
promulgated thereunder.  As used herein, "release," "spill" and any similar terms 
shall have the respective meanings set forth in each applicable Environmental Law, 
and  in  the  case  of  a  conflict  or  ambiguity,  the  broadest  interpretation  of  such 
meanings shall apply.   In the event any Environmental Law is amended to broaden 
the  meaning  of  any  term  defined  thereby,  such  broader  meaning  shall  apply 
subsequent to the effective date of such amendment. 

Borrower has taken all reasonable and necessary steps to investigate the past and 
present condition and usage of the Property and the operations conducted thereon 
and based upon such diligent investigation, Borrower represents and warrants that 
Borrower and those persons having a legal or beneficial interest in Borrower: 

(i) have  not  been  involved  in  operations  at  the  Property  involving  any  Polluting 
Substances  in  violation  of  any  Environmental  Laws,  (ii)  have  not  caused  any 
release of a Polluting Substance at or affecting the Property, or any contiguous land 
included in the property description of the Property, (iii) know of no Polluting 
Substance located on or affecting (in a manner in violation of Environmental Laws) 
(A) the Property, (B) any contiguous land included in the property description of 
the Property or (C) any other properties adjacent to the Property, (iv) have not 
permitted  any  tenant  or  occupant  of  the    Property    to  engage  in  any  activity 
involving any Polluting Substance in violation of Environmental Laws, (v) have 
not received any notice, order, claim, or demand from any governmental authority 
under any Environmental Law and (vi) have disclosed to Lender all information it 
has regarding whether there are any Polluting Substances located on or affecting 
the Property. 

(c) 

Borrower  further  represents  and  warrants  to  Lender  that,  to  the  best  of  its 
knowledge:  (i)  the  Property  is  not  in  violation  of  or  subject  to  any  existing, 
pending, or threatened investigation or inquiry by any governmental authority or 
any response costs or remedial obligations under any Environmental Law and this 
representation and warranty would continue to be true and correct   following 

7 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

disclosure  to  the  applicable  governmental  authorities  of  all  relevant  facts, 
conditions, and circumstances, if any, pertaining to the Property and (ii) Borrower 
has  not  obtained  and  is  not  required  to  obtain  any  permits,  licenses  or  similar 
authorizations to construct, occupy, operate or use any buildings, improvements, 
fixtures,  and  equipment  forming  a  part  of  the  Property  by  reason  of  any 
Environmental Law. 

3.7 

Compliance  with  Documents.  No  Event  of  Default  (as  defined  herein  or  therein)  has 
occurred hereunder or under any Transaction Document, and no event has or shall have occurred and be 
continuing that, with the lapse of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute such an Event of 
Default. 

3.8 

No Misrepresentation or Material Nondisclosure. Borrower has not made and will not make 
to Lender, in this Agreement or otherwise, any untrue statement of a material fact, nor has it omitted to state 
a material fact necessary to make any statement made not misleading. Borrower has provided true and 
correct copies to Administrator of such items, documents, applications, disclosures or other information as 
Administrator has required. 

3.9 

Insurance. Borrower has provided to Lender satisfactory evidence of the current insurance 
policies  that  are  required  under  this  Agreement  and,  at  all  times  while  any  indebtedness  under  the 
Transaction Documents is outstanding, Borrower shall promptly provide Lender with evidence satisfactory 
to  Lender  of  any  renewal  of  any  such  required  policies.  Such  policies  must  (i)  be  issued  by  insurance 
companies admitted in the Commonwealth, (ii) be issued by insurance companies with an A.M. Best rating 
of A- or better, (iii) be in a form and contain content reasonably acceptable to Lender, (iv)  shall specify 
Lender and Borrower as insureds and provide that such policies may not be canceled or altered in any way 
that would affect the interest of Lender without at least thirty (30) days’ prior written notice to Lender (ten 
(10) days’ in the case of nonpayment of premium), (v) provide that all amounts payable by reason of loss 
or damage to the Property shall be payable solely to Lender, unless Lender otherwise agrees, (vi) shall be 
primary, without right of contribution from any other insurance carried by Lender, (vii) contain waiver of 
subrogation and "breach of warranty" provisions satisfactory to Lender and (viii) shall contain such other 
endorsements as Lender may reasonably require. Should Borrower fail to maintain required insurance, 
Lender may, but shall not be obligated to, obtain such required insurance in amounts and limits sufficient 
to protect Lender’s interest, and charge back the cost to Borrower. Required insurance includes: 

[INSERT specific insurance requirements to be negotiated between Borrower and Lender]. 

3.10 

Energy Audit. An energy audit or renewable energy system feasibility analysis has been 
performed on the Property that assesses the expected energy cost savings of the energy improvements over 
the useful life of such improvements. 

3.11 

Proper Purpose. The Project consists only of an "Eligible Improvement" to an "Eligible 
Building" situated on "Eligible Property," all within the meaning of the Ordinance, and is consistent with 
the requirements of the Act, the Ordinance and the Program Guide. 

3.12  Required Disclosure. Borrower has received from [Administrator / Lender] information 
and disclosure on the costs and risks associated with participating in the Program, including risks related to 
the  failure  of  Borrower  to  pay  the  Assessment  Payments  and  remedies  related  thereto.  Borrower 
acknowledges that [Administrator / Lender] has disclosed to Borrower the Program Fees and the effective 
interest rate on the Loan. 

8 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

3.13 

Incorporation  of  Representations  and  Warranties.  The  request  by  Borrower  for 
disbursement of the Loan shall constitute a certification by Borrower that the representations and warranties 
contained herein are true and correct as of the date of such request. 

3.14  Utilities. All utility services, including gas, water, sewage, electrical and telephone, that 
are necessary to develop the Project and occupy the Property are available or Borrower has taken all steps 
necessary to assure that all utility services will be available upon completion of the Project. 

3.15  Other Obligations. Borrower is not in default on any obligation for borrowed money, any 
purchase money obligation or any other material lease, commitment, contract, instrument or obligation, 
except as have been disclosed in writing to Lender. 

3.16 

Tax Matters. Borrower has no knowledge of any pending assessments or adjustments of its 
income tax for any year and all taxes due have been paid, except as have been disclosed in writing to Lender. 

3.17  Unconditional Obligation. Borrower acknowledges that Borrower’s obligation to repay the 

Loan is non-cancelable, absolute and unconditional in all circumstances. 

3.18 

Special  Requirements  of  the  Act.  Borrower  represents  that  (i)  Borrower  is  current  on 
payments  on  all loans  or debts secured by  a  Mortgage  on  the  Property  and  is current on  property  tax 
payments  to  the  County,  (ii)  Borrower  is  not  insolvent  or  subject  to  bankruptcy  proceedings  and  (iii) 
Borrower's title to the Property is not in dispute. 

ARTICLE IV - DISBURSEMENT OF LOAN 

4.1 

Conditions Precedent to Lender’s Performance. 

(a)  After the execution of this Agreement and upon receipt of evidence satisfactory to Lender that (i) 
the Lien has been validly Recorded and (ii) the County has validly assigned the Lien to Lender, as 
a  prerequisite  to  the  performance  by  Lender  of  any  of  its  obligations  under  this  Agreement, 
Borrower shall deliver to Lender the following: 

(i) 

A  Secretary’s  Certificate  executed  by  the  Secretary  of  Borrower,  in  form  and 

substance satisfactory to Lender; 

(ii) 
to Lender; 

An opinion from Borrower’s counsel to Lender, in form and substance satisfactory 

(iii) 

Evidence of insurance as required by Section 3.9; 

(iv) 

All  documents,  including  financing  statements,  affidavits,  notices  and  similar 
instruments,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  Lender,  which  Lender  deems  necessary  or 
appropriate at that time; 

(v) 

A written subordination agreement duly executed by each Holder of an existing 
Mortgage on the Property, in a form and substance acceptable to each in each's sole discretion (each 
such subordination agreement, a "Consent"); 

(vi) 

Evidence, in each case in a form and substance satisfactory to Lender, that: (A) 
Borrower is current on payments on all loans or debts secured by a Mortgage on the Property  and 

9 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

is current on property tax payments to the County, (ii) Borrower is not insolvent or subject to 
bankruptcy proceedings and (iii) Borrower's title to the Property is not in dispute; 

(vii) 

Evidence satisfactory to Lender that Borrower has obtained and complied with all 
required Permits, each of which is final (i.e. not subject to any appeal periods and not subject to 
any pending appeals), valid and in full force and effect; 

(viii)  Evidence satisfactory to Lender that no order or notice shall have been given by 
any  governmental  agency  stopping  construction  or  stating  that  the  work  or  construction  is  in 
violation of any law, ordinance, code or regulation, unless such order or notice has been rescinded 
and a copy of such rescission has been delivered to and shall be satisfactory to Lender; and 

(x) 

Such other items reasonably required by Lender. 

(b) 

In addition, the performance by Lender of any of its obligations under this Agreement 
shall be subject to no Event of Default having occurred and continuing. 

ARTICLE V - COVENANTS 

Borrower hereby covenants and agrees as follows: 

5.1 

The  Act,  the  Ordinance  and  the  Program  Guide.  A  copy  of  each  of  the  Act  and  the 
Ordinance is attached to this Agreement as Exhibit [ ], and the Program Guide is available on the  Program 
website. Borrower has read each and will comply in all respects with the provisions of each, including, 
without limitation, the following: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Borrower covenants that it will not contest the amount or the validity of the Loan, 
the Assessment Payments, the Lien or the Program Fees; 

Borrower will provide written  notice, not  less than  [  
]  ([    ])  days 
prior to the recording of the Lien, to each existing Holder of a Mortgage on the 
Property, of Borrower's intent to finance the Project pursuant to the Act and the 
Ordinance; and 

Borrower will deliver to Lender, not less than [  
] ([    ]) days  prior to 
the recording of the Lien, a Consent from each existing Holder of a Mortgage on 
the Property. 

5.2 

General.  Borrower will: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Use  the  Loan  proceeds  solely  to  pay  or  reimburse  the  costs  of  acquiring  the 
components  of,  installing  (including  the  performance  of  renovations)  and 
constructing the Project; 

Promptly pay when due the Assessment Payments and all other fees and charges 
due under the Transaction Documents; 

At all times while any indebtedness under the Transaction Documents remains 
outstanding, (i) preserve and keep in full force and effect the existence of each 
Transaction Document  and (ii)  retain clear  title to the  Property;  provided, that 

10 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

Borrower may transfer title to the Property strictly in accordance with Section 
5.2(d) hereof; 

Borrower shall not sell, assign, pledge, transfer or otherwise alienate, all or any 
portion of the Property or the Project unless (i) Borrower has promptly notified 
Lender, in writing, of any such sale, assignment, pledge, transfer or other alienation 
and  (ii)  the  transferee  agrees  in  writing  to  assume  and  fully  perform  all  of 
Borrower’s obligations under the Transaction Documents; 

Pay when due all taxes, assessments, water charges, sewer charges and all other 
charges  levied  on  or  against  the  Property,  and  upon written request,  submit  to 
Lender official receipts evidencing such payments; 

Obtain and maintain in force the insurance reasonably required by Lender, and 
described  in  Section  3.9  hereof,  at  all  times  while  any  indebtedness  under  the 
Transaction Documents remains outstanding, and promptly provide Lender with 
evidence satisfactory to Lender of any renewal of any such required policies; 

Notify  Lender  in  writing  at  least  [  
]  ([    ])  days  before  changing 
Borrower’s legal name, state of organization, chief executive office location or 
organizational identification number; 

Maintain its good standing in its state of organization and all other jurisdictions 
where legally required in order to carry on its business, and conduct its  businesses 
and manage its properties (and cause each of its affiliates to conduct its businesses 
and  manage  its  properties)  in  compliance  with  all  applicable  laws,  rules  or 
regulations binding, in any jurisdiction, on Borrower and its affiliates including, 
without limitation, all anti-money laundering laws and regulations;  and 

Not consent to any restriction, agreement or order for any environmental land use 
restriction without the prior written consent of Lender, which may be granted or 
withheld in Lender’s sole and unfettered discretion. 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

5.3 

Protection against Liens. Borrower shall promptly pay and discharge all claims for labor 
performed and material and services furnished in connection with construction of the Project, and take all 
other steps necessary to prevent the assertion of claims or liens either against the Property or the Project, 
other than the claims and lien provided herein. 

5.4 

Notice  of  Claims.  Borrower  shall  promptly  notify  Lender  in  writing  of  all  pending  or 
threatened litigation that may materially adversely affect the Property, the Project or Borrower’s ability to 
meet its obligations under the Transaction Documents. 

5.5 

Damage or Destruction. Borrower shall promptly notify Lender if the Project or Property 
is damaged or destroyed from any cause whatsoever. Upon the occurrence of such casualty, Lender will 
determine, in its sole and absolute discretion, either to apply the insurance proceeds to the restoration of the 
Project, or to repayment of the outstanding balance of the Loan, including principal, accrued interest and 
fees.  In the event restoration of the Project is permitted, Borrower shall immediately proceed with the 
restoration thereof. If, in Lender’s judgment, said proceeds are insufficient to complete the restoration, 
Borrower shall deposit with Lender such amounts as are necessary, in Lender's judgment, to complete the 
restoration.  If Lender, in its sole and absolute discretion, does not permit the restoration   of 

11 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

the  Project,  then  all  insurance  proceeds  received  on  account  of  such  casualty  (less  any  fees,  costs  or 
expenses incurred by Lender in collecting the same) shall be forthwith paid to Lender and Lender may 
apply the net amount so received, in such manner as Lender may determine, toward the reduction of the 
outstanding balance of the Loan, including principal, whether then matured or to mature in the future, 
accrued interest and fees. 

5.6 

Condemnation. Borrower shall promptly notify Lender if the Project or Property is taken 
by  condemnation  or  subject  to  an  imminent  threat  of  condemnation.  Subsequent  to  a  taking  by 
condemnation or imminent threat thereof, all condemnation awards received on account of such taking (less 
any fees, costs or expenses incurred by Lender in collecting the same) shall be forthwith paid to Lender and 
Lender will determine, in its sole and absolute discretion, either to apply the condemnation proceeds to the 
restoration  of  the  Project,  or  toward  the  reduction  of  the  outstanding  balance  of  the  Loan,  including 
principal, whether then matured or to mature in the future, accrued interest and fees. If Lender so decides 
that the Project can be so restored, then the rights and obligations of Lender and Borrower subsequent to a 
taking by condemnation or imminent threat thereof and the disbursement of any condemnation proceeds 
actually paid to Lender, shall be the same as described in Section 5.5 with regard to insurance proceeds. If 
Lender, in its sole and absolute discretion, determines that the Project cannot be restored as aforesaid, then 
all condemnation awards received on account of such taking (less any fees, costs or expenses incurred by 
Lender in collecting the same) shall be forthwith paid to Lender and Lender may apply the net amount so 
received, in such manner as Lender may determine, in its sole and absolute discretion, toward the reduction 
of the outstanding balance of the Loan, including principal, whether then matured or to mature in the future, 
accrued interest and fees. 

5.7 

Environmental Protection and Remediation. 

(a) 

Borrower covenants and agrees that: (i) Borrower will not release any Polluting 
Substance in, on, over or under the Property or on any properties adjacent to the 
Property, (ii) Borrower will not become involved, and will not permit any tenant 
or  occupant  of  the  Property  to  become  involved,  in  operations  at  the  Property 
involving unlawful use of Polluting Substances, (iii) Borrower, at its sole cost and 
expense,  will  comply  strictly  and  in  all  respects  with  the  requirements  of  all 
Environmental Laws, (iv) Borrower will notify Lender promptly in the event of 
the presence or release of any Polluting Substance at or affecting the Property  and 
give  to  Lender  a  copy  of  any  warning  letters  or  notice  of  violations  of  any 
Environmental Law received by Borrower, (v) in the event any Polluting Substance 
is found at the Property in violation of any Environmental Law, Borrower will 
immediately contain and remove the same in compliance with all Environmental 
Laws  and  pay  immediately  when  due  the  cost  of  removal  of  such  Polluting 
Substance, (vi) Borrower will keep the Property free and clear of any lien imposed 
pursuant to any Environmental Law and (vii) Borrower will include in all future 
leases  of  any  portion  of  the  Property  provisions  requiring  compliance  with  all 
Environmental Laws and reporting of information regarding such compliance to 
Borrower and Lender. 

(b) 

Borrower agrees to permit Lender, at its election and in its reasonable discretion 
but with notice to Borrower, at any time and from time to time, if Lender has reason 
to  suspect  the  presence  of  a  Polluting  Substance,  to  cause  one  or  more 
environmental  site  assessments  of 
to  be  undertaken.  An 
environmental  site  assessment  may  include  a  detailed  visual  inspection  of  the 
Property, including, without limitation, all storage areas, storage tanks, drains, dry 
wells, and leaching areas, as well as the taking of samples of soil, surface 

the  Property 

12 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

water, and ground water and such other investigation or analysis as is necessary or 
appropriate for a complete assessment of the compliance of the Property and the 
use and operation thereof with all Environmental Laws. 

5.8 

Indemnification. Without limitation of any other obligation or liability of Borrower or  any 
right  or  remedy  of  Lender  contained  herein,  Borrower  agrees to  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless 
Lender, as well as its respective directors, officers, employees, agents, subsidiaries and affiliates (each an 
"Indemnified Person"), from and against all damages, losses, settlement payments, obligations, liabilities, 
claims, suits, penalties, assessments, citations, directives, demands, judgments, actions  or causes of action, 
whether statutorily created or under the common law, including all costs and expenses (including, without 
limitation, fees and disbursements of attorneys, engineers and consultants), fines, charges, fees, response 
costs (including cleanup, removal or mitigation), diminutions in value and all  other liabilities whatsoever 
(including, without limitation, liabilities under any applicable Environmental Laws, regulations or rules) 
which  shall  at  any  time  or  times  be  incurred,  suffered,  sustained  or  required  to  be  paid  by  any  such 
Indemnified  Person  (except  any  of  the  foregoing  which  result  from  the  gross  negligence  or  willful 
misconduct of the Indemnified Person) on account of or in relation to or in any way connected with (i) any 
of  the  arrangements  or  transactions  contemplated  by,  associated  with  or  ancillary    to  the  Transaction 
Documents or any other documents executed or delivered in connection herewith or therewith, including, 
without  limitation,  each  Construction  Contract,  all  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time, 
regardless  of  whether  any  of  the  foregoing  or  the  transactions  contemplated  thereby  are  ultimately 
consummated, (ii) resulting from any conduct, act or failure to act by Borrower or its affiliates or related 
parties, (iii) any presence, or any release, of any Polluting Substance at or affecting the  Property, (iv) any 
application, or any claim of application, of any Environmental Law to the Property or the operation thereof, 
including any requirement for clean-up of any Polluting Substance or the assertion of any lien because of 
any release; (v) any failure by Borrower to comply with the terms of any order of the Virginia Department 
of Environmental Quality, Virginia Department of Mines, Minerals and Energy or any other federal, state, 
or municipal governmental authority under any Environmental Law, (vi) any losses as a result of a lien in 
favor of any person or entity having priority over the Lien or (vii) any taxes required to be paid by Lender 
in  respect  of  the  Assessment  Payments,  the  Lien  or  the  assignment  or  amendment  thereof.  In  any 
investigation, proceeding or litigation, or the preparation therefor (whether or not Lender is a party thereto), 
Lender shall select its own counsel and, in addition to the foregoing indemnity, Borrower agrees to pay 
promptly the fees and expenses of such counsel. In the event of the commencement of any such proceeding 
or litigation, Borrower shall be entitled to participate in such proceeding or litigation with counsel of its 
choice at its own expense, provided that such counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to Lender. This 
Section shall survive the execution, delivery, performance and repayment of the Transaction Documents, 
the Assessment Payments and the Loan, and the extinguishment of the Lien. 

5.9 

Further Assurances. Upon request of Lender, Borrower will take any actions and execute 
any further documents as Lender deems reasonably necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of 
this  Agreement.  Without  limiting  the  generality  of  the  foregoing,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time, 
including upon the request of Lender, Borrower will, at Borrower’s expense, execute and deliver and file 
such further documents, amendments and instruments and do such other acts as are in each case necessary 
or required by applicable law (as determined by Lender) in order to create, perfect, maintain and preserve 
the Lien in favor of Lender and, upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, to 
facilitate any sale of or other realization upon the Property, to make any sale of or other realization upon 
the Property valid, binding and in compliance with applicable law, and to provide for the payment  of the 
obligations in accordance with the terms hereof. Borrower shall pay all filing, registration and recording 
fees  or  re-filing,  re  registration  and  rerecording  fees,  and  all  expenses  incident  to  the  execution  and 
acknowledgment of this Agreement, and any instruments of further assurance, and all federal, state, county 
and municipal stamp taxes and other taxes, duties, imports, assessments and charges arising out of 

13 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

or in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, any agreement supplemental hereto 
and any instruments of further assurance. 

5.10  Assignment of Lien and Participation Interests. 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

Lender  shall  have  the  unrestricted  right  at  any  time  or  from  time  to  time,  and 
without Borrower’s consent, to assign all or any portion of its rights and obligations 
hereunder to one or more banks, lenders, institutional investors, or other financial 
institutions (each, an "Assignee"), and Borrower agrees that it shall execute, or 
cause to be executed, such documents, including without limitation, amendments 
to  this  Agreement  and  to  any  other  documents,  instruments  and  agreements 
executed  in  connection  herewith  as  Lender  shall  deem  necessary  to  effect  the 
foregoing.  Upon 
the  execution  and  delivery  of  appropriate  assignment 
documentation, amendments and any  other documentation required by Lender in 
connection with such assignment, and the payment by Assignee of the purchase 
price agreed to by Lender and such Assignee, such Assignee shall be a party to this 
Agreement and shall have all of the rights and obligations of Lender hereunder 
(and under any and all other guaranties, documents, instruments and agreements 
executed in connection herewith) to the extent that such rights and obligations have 
been  assigned  by  Lender  pursuant  to  the  assignment  documentation  between 
Lender  and  such  Assignee,  and  Lender  shall  be  released  from  its  obligations 
hereunder and thereunder to a corresponding extent. 

institutional 

investors,  or  other  financial 

Lender shall have the unrestricted right at any time and from time to time, and 
without  the  consent  of  or  notice  of  Borrower,  to  grant  to  one  or  more  banks, 
lenders, 
institutions  (each,  a 
"Participant") participating interests in Lender's obligation to lend hereunder. In 
the event of any such grant by Lender of a participating interest to a Participant, 
whether or not upon notice to Borrower, Lender shall remain responsible for the 
performance  of  its  obligations  hereunder  and  Borrower  shall  continue  to  deal 
solely and directly with Lender in connection with Lender's rights and obligations 
hereunder. 

In furtherance of the foregoing, Lender may furnish any information concerning 
Borrower  in  its  possession  from  time  to  time  to  prospective  Assignees  and 
Participants. 

The  rights  conferred  upon  Lender  by  this  Agreement  shall  be  automatically 
extended to and vested in any Assignee or Participant upon Borrower’s receipt of 
notice of such assignment, participation or other transfer; provided, however, that 
no such assignment, participation or other transfer shall increase or expand the 
obligations of Borrower hereunder. 

Notwithstanding  anything  in  this  Section  to  the  contrary,  each  Assignee  or 
Participant (i) must meet the definition of "Lender" under the Ordinance, (ii) shall 
be subject to the Program Guide and applicable law, including, without limitation, 
the Act and the Ordinance and (iii) shall, prior to accepting any assignment or 
participation interest described in this Section, agree in writing to comply with the 
Program Guide, the Act and the Ordinance. 

14 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

5.11 

Integrity of the Property as a Single Parcel. Borrower shall not, without the express prior 
written consent of Lender, which consent Lender may grant or withhold in its sole and absolute discretion, 
by act or omission impair the integrity of the Property as a single, separate, subdivided, separately taxed 
and zoned lot separate and apart from all other property. 

5.12 

Partial Release. If Lender has provided its written consent to a subdivision or lot split 
relating to the Property in accordance with Section 5.11, Lender agrees to release the Lien on one or more 
of the lots or parcels comprising the Property provided that (i) no Event of Default has occurred or is 
continuing, (ii) such lot or parcel that Borrower is requesting be released from the Lien (the "Release 
Parcel")  has  been  lawfully  subdivided  from  the  remaining  property  of  Borrower  (including,  without 
limitation, evidence satisfactory to Lender that such Release Parcel and the remaining parcel(s) of Borrower 
are taxed and treated separately), (iii) the Release Parcel does not contain and is not serviced by the Project, 
or any part thereof, (iv) Lender has determined, in its sole discretion, that the form of partial release of the 
Lien for the Release Parcel is satisfactory in all respects to Lender and (v) Borrower pays  all of Lender’s 
expenses incurred in connection with reviewing and documenting such partial release, which amounts must 
be paid by Borrower whether or not the proposed partial release is approved or executed. The intent of this 
Section is that Lender shall not consent to or provide any partial release if Lender shall determine in its sole 
and absolute discretion that the prospect of repayment is impaired or threatened by reason of a requested 
partial release by Borrower. 

5.13  Covenant to Prepay. Borrower agrees that if (i) an Event of Unenforceability occurs, (ii) 
Borrower fails to insure the Property or Project in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the 
Property or Project is damaged or destroyed from any cause whatsoever at a time of such failure, (iii) 
Borrower sells, assigns, pledges, transfers or otherwise alienates all or any portion of the Property without 
complying with Section 5.2(d) or (iv) Borrower creates or permits any encumbrance on any portion of the 
Property, which encumbrance purports to have priority over the Lien, including, without limitation, any 
restriction, agreement or order for any environmental land use restriction, Borrower shall immediately, upon 
the written request of Lender, prepay directly to Lender all (but not less than all) of the outstanding amount 
(principal  and  accrued  and  unpaid  interest,  fees,  costs  and  expenses)  owing  under  the  Transaction 
Documents as of the date of prepayment, [plus a prepayment penalty  of [  
] percent ([    ]%) of 
the outstanding principal amount of the Loan that is being prepaid]. 

5.14 

PATRIOT Act Notice. Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify and 
record information that identifies each entity that obtains a loan or other financial accommodation. The 
first-time Borrower (and its successors and permitted assigns) requests a financial accommodation from 
Lender, Lender may ask for the legal name, address, tax ID number and other identifying information of 
Borrower (and its successors and permitted assigns). Borrower (and its successors and permitted assigns) 
shall promptly provide copies of business licenses or other documents evidencing the existence and good 
standing of Borrower (and its successors and permitted assigns). 

5.15 

ERISA. 

(a) 

Each Plan (other than a multiemployer plan) is in compliance in all material respects with 
ERISA, the Code and other federal or state law, including all applicable minimum funding standards and 
there have been no prohibited transactions with respect to any Plan (other than a multiemployer plan), which 
has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect. 

(b)  With respect to any Plan subject to Title IV of ERISA: 

(i) 

requires notice. 

No reportable event has occurred under Section 4043(c) of ERISA which 

15 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

(ii) 

No action by Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate to terminate or withdraw from any 
Plan has been taken and no notice of intent to terminate a Plan has been filed under Section 4041 
or 4042 of ERISA. 

(c) 

The following terms have the meanings indicated for purposes of this Section: 

(i) 

"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

(ii) 
amended. 

"ERISA"  means  the  Employee  Retirement  Income  Security  Act  of  1974,  as 

(iii) 

"ERISA Affiliate" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under 

common control with Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code. 

(iv) 

"Plan" means a plan within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA maintained or 
contributed to by Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate, including any multiemployer plan within the 
meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA. 

5.16  Change in Law. Borrower will pay Lender, on demand, for Lender’s costs or losses arising 
from  any  Change  in  Law  which  is  allocated  to  this  Agreement  or  any  credit  outstanding  under  this 
Agreement. The allocation will be made as determined by Lender, using any reasonable method. The costs 
include, without limitation, the following: 

(a) 

any reserve or deposit requirements (excluding any reserve requirement already 

reflected in the calculation of the interest rate in this Agreement); and 

(b) 

any capital requirements relating to Lender’s assets and commitments for credit. 

For  purposes  of  this  Section,  "Change  in  Law"  means  the  occurrence,  after  the  date  of  this 
Agreement, of the adoption or taking effect of any new or changed law, rule, regulation or treaty, or the 
issuance  of  any  request,  rule,  guideline  or  directive  (whether  or  not  having  the  force  of  law)  by  any 
governmental authority; provided that (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives issued in connection with that Act and (ii) all requests, 
rules, guidelines or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee 
on Banking Supervision (or any successor authority) or the United States regulatory authorities, in each 
case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law," regardless of the date 
enacted, adopted or issued. 

5.17 

Taxes Imposed on Lender. Borrower shall pay to Lender, the amount of any and all sales 
or use taxes or similar taxes, if any, that may be imposed by any federal, state or local government authority 
on Lender arising from Lender’s performance under this Agreement, including, without limitation any taxes 
on remittances made by the County to Lender, within thirty (30) days of receipt of a written request from 
Lender for such payment. 

5.18  Reimbursement of Costs of Lender. Borrower shall pay to Lender all other costs, fees and 
charges  imposed  on  Lender  as  a  result  of  its  performance  under  this  Agreement,  including,  without 
limitation, amounts paid by Lender to the County pursuant to this Agreement or the Ordinance, within thirty 
(30) days of receipt of a written request from Lender for such payment. 

16 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

ARTICLE VI- DEFAULT AND REMEDIES 

6.1 

Events of Default. The occurrence of any of the following events shall constitute an 

"Event of Default" hereunder: 

(a) 

(b) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

Failure to make any Assessment Payment; 

Failure to make any other payment required under this Agreement, the Lien, or any 
amendment thereof, or any other document executed in connection with the Loan 
or any of the foregoing documents (collectively, the "Transaction Documents"), 
when due or beyond any stated and applicable cure period; 

Any  breach  by  Borrower  beyond  any  applicable  notice  or  cure  periods  of  any 
covenant, condition or any other term of the Transaction Documents or an Event 
of Default as defined in any of the Transaction Documents shall occur, including, 
without  limitation,  a  failure  to  maintain  insurance  as  required  by  any  of  the 
Transaction Documents; 

Any written representation, warranty or disclosure made to Lender by Borrower 
proves  to  be  materially  false  or  misleading,  or  omits  to state  any  material fact 
necessary  in  order  to  make  the  representation,  warranty  or  disclosure  not 
misleading, as of the date when made (or deemed to be made in accordance with 
Article  3),  whether  or  not  such  representation  or  disclosure  appears  in  the 
Transaction Documents; 

A petition in bankruptcy or insolvency or similar law affecting creditors’ rights or 
for a receiver or trustee for any of Borrower's assets is filed by or against Borrower 
or  if  Borrower  makes  an  assignment  for  the  benefit  of  creditors  or  becomes 
insolvent or unable to pay its debts as they mature; 

There  occurs  any  event  which  in  Lender’s  judgment  materially  and  adversely 
affects (i) the ability of Borrower to perform any of its obligations under any of the 
Transaction Documents, (ii) the business or financial condition of Borrower or (iii) 
the timely repayment of the Loan; 

Any encumbrance on any portion of the Property is created, which encumbrance 
purports  to  have  priority  over  the  Lien,  including,  without  limitation,  any 
restriction, agreement or order for any environmental land use restriction; 

The  loss  of  any  governmental  approval,  license  or  permit  necessary  for  the 
construction  or  operation  of  the  Project  or  any  governmental  license  for  the 
operation of the business operated or to be operated on the Property for a period 
exceeding sixty (60) days; 

The  existence  of  any  liens  for  taxes  past  due  with  respect  to  the  Property,  or 
carrier's, warehousemen's, mechanics’, materialmen’s, repairmen's or other liens 
which have not been dismissed, escrowed (subject to Lender sole approval) or 
bonded for thirty (30) days after the filing or recording thereof; 

(i) 

Any Transaction Document shall, for any reason (excluding the actions of Lender), 
cease to be in full  force  and effect  (other  than  pursuant  to the  terms 

17 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

thereof) or cease to be valid and binding on any party thereto, or Borrower shall 
so assert in writing; 

(j) 

(k) 

(l) 

Failure of Borrower to make a requested prepayment, in full, pursuant to Section 
5.13 hereof; 

Any default occurs under any other agreement between Borrower and Lender or 
any affiliate thereof; or 

Any default occurs under any agreement in connection with any indebtedness   of 
(i) Borrower, (ii) Borrower's affiliates or (iii) any person or entity that Borrower 
or its affiliate has guaranteed. 

6.2 

Remedies. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, Lender may in addition to any 
other remedies which it may have, at its option and without prior demand or notice, take any or all of the 
following actions in any order selected by Lender: 

(a) 

(b) 

(d) 

Immediately terminate any pending disbursement of the Loan (and Lender shall 
have no further obligation to make such Loan); 

Declare  immediately  due  and  payable  all  or  any  portion  of  (i)  the  unpaid 
Assessment Payments (less any interest portion not yet accrued) and (ii) any other 
accrued and unpaid fees, costs or expenses under the Transaction Documents; 

Exercise   any   remedies   available   to   the   Lender   under    the   Transactions 
Documents; 

(f) 

Exercise any other rights and remedies available to Lender or at law or in equity. 

The enumeration of the rights and remedies of Lender set forth in this Agreement is not intended 
to be exhaustive, and the exercise by Lender of any right or remedy shall not preclude the exercise of any 
other rights or remedies, all of which shall be cumulative, and shall be in addition to any other right or 
remedy given under the Transaction Documents or that may now or hereafter exist in law or in equity or by 
suit or otherwise. No delay or failure to take action on the part of Lender in exercising any right, power or 
privilege shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right, power 
or privilege preclude other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege 
or be construed to be a waiver of any Event of Default. No course of dealing between Borrower and Lender 
or their respective agents or employees shall be effective to change, modify or discharge any provision of 
any Transaction Document or to constitute a waiver of any Event of Default. 

6.3 

Power of Attorney. Borrower irrevocably constitutes and appoints Lender and  any officer 
or agent thereof, each with full power of substitution, as its true and lawful attorney-in-fact, in its name or 
otherwise, and at Borrower’s expense, to take any or all of the following actions upon the occurrence and 
during the continuation of an Event of Default, without notice to or the consent of Borrower: 

(a) 

take any or all of the actions described in Section 6.2, and exercise any other 
right or power granted to Lender under any Transaction Document or by law; 

18 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

endorse or execute and deliver any check, draft, note, acceptance, or instrument, 
document,  contract,  agreement,  receipt,  release,  bill  of  lading, 
invoice, 
endorsement, assignment, bill of sale, deed or instrument of conveyance or transfer 
constituting or relating to any Transaction Document; 

assert, institute, file, defend, settle, compromise or adjust any claim constituting or 
relating to any Transaction Document; 

perform  or  comply  with  any  contractual  obligation  that  constitutes  part  of  any 
Transaction Document; and 

do  any  and  all  things  necessary  and  proper  to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  this 
Agreement. 

Borrower recognizes and agrees that the power of attorney granted pursuant to this Section 6.3 is 
coupled with an interest and is not revocable until the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its 
terms, at which time the power of attorney shall automatically terminate. Borrower ratifies and confirms all 
actions taken by Lender or its agents pursuant to this power of attorney in accordance herewith. 

ARTICLE VII - MISCELLANEOUS 

7.1 

No Waiver. No waiver of any Event of Default or breach by Borrower hereunder shall be 
implied from any failure by Lender to take action on account of such Event of Default or breach if the same 
persists or is repeated, and no express waiver shall affect any Event of Default or breach other than the 
Event of Default or breach specified in the waiver. Waivers of any covenant, term or condition contained 
herein shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same covenant, term or condition. 

7.2 

Successors  and  Assigns.  This  Agreement  is  binding  upon  and  made  for  the  benefit  of 
Lender and Borrower, their successors and permitted assigns, and no other person or persons shall have any 
right of action hereunder. 

7.3 

Notices.  All  demands,  notices,  requests,  consents,  waivers  and  other  communications 
concerning this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when received, 
personally delivered or three (3) business days after being deposited in the mail, first class postage prepaid, or 
the business day after delivery to an express carrier, charges prepaid, addressed to each party at the address 
provided below, or at such other address as may hereafter be furnished in writing by such party to the other. 

If to Lender: 

] 
[  
] 
[  
[  
]  
Attention: [    

] 

19 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

If to Borrower: 

[  
] 
[  
] 
[  
]  
Attention: [    

] 

Borrower further agrees to provide Lender with copies of any notices, requests, consents, waivers 
or  other  communications  concerning  any  Transaction  Document  or  Construction  Contract,  sent  by 
Borrower, to or received by Borrower from, any third party within seven (7) business days of sending or 
receiving such notice, request, consent, waiver or other communication. 

7.4 

Amendments. No amendment, modification, termination or waiver of any provisions of 

this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by each of Lender and Borrower. 

7.5 

Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with 

the laws of the Commonwealth. 

7.6  WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES 
ITS RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO 
THE SPECIAL ASSESSMENT, THE LIEN, THE LOAN OR ANY TRANSACTION DOCUMENT, 
OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED 
ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (i) CERTIFIES 
THAT  NO  RESPRESENTATIVE,  AGENT  OR  ATTORNEY  OF  ANY  OTHER  PERSON  HAS 
REPRESENTED,  EXPRESSLY  OR  OTHERWISE,  THAT  SUCH    OTHER  PERSON  WOULD 
NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE  THE FOREGOING WAIVER, 
(ii)  ACKNOWLEDGES  THAT  IT  AND  THE  OTHER  PARTIES  HERETO  HAVE  BEEN 
INDUCED  TO  ENTHER  THIS  AGREEMENT  AND  THE  OTHER  DOCUMENTS 
CONTEMPLATED HEREBY BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND 
CERTIFICATIONS  IN  THIS  SECTION  AND  (iii)  CERTIFIES  THAT  THIS  WAIVER  IS 
KNOWLINGLY, WILLINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY MADE. 

7.7 

Jurisdiction. Borrower agrees that the execution of each Transaction Document, and the 
performance of its obligations thereunder, shall be deemed to have a Commonwealth of Virginia situs and 
Borrower shall be subject to the personal jurisdiction of the state and federal courts of the Commonwealth 
with  respect  to  any  action  Lender,  its  successors  or  assigns  may  commence  thereunder.  Accordingly, 
Borrower hereby specifically and irrevocably consents to the jurisdiction of the state and federal courts of 
the Commonwealth with respect to all matters concerning any Transaction Document, or the enforcement 
thereof. To the extent that Borrower has or hereafter may acquire: (i) any immunity from jurisdiction of the 
state  or  federal  courts  located  in  the  Commonwealth  or  from  any  legal  process  out  of  any  such  court 
(whether through service or notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution, execution 
or otherwise) with respect to itself or its property or (ii) any objection to the laying of the venue or of an 
inconvenient forum or any suit, action or proceeding brought in a state or federal court located in the 
Commonwealth under process served in accordance with any Transaction Document,  Borrower hereby 
irrevocably waives such immunity or objection in respect of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or 
relating to any Transaction Document. 

7.8 

Execution  in  Counterparts.  This  Agreement  may  be  simultaneously  executed  in  any 
number of counterparts, each of such counterparts shall be an original; and all of such counterparts when 
taken together shall constitute one agreement binding on all parties, notwithstanding that all parties are not 
signatories to the same counterpart. 

20 

 

 

 

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

7.9 

Limitation of Interest and Other Charges. If, at any time, the rate of interest, together  with 
all amounts which constitute interest and which are reserved, charged or taken by Lender as compensation 
for fees, services or expenses incidental to the making, negotiating or collection of the  Loan evidenced 
hereby, shall be deemed by any competent court of law, governmental agency or tribunal to exceed the 
maximum rate of interest permitted to be charged by Lender to Borrower under applicable law, then, during 
such time as such rate of interest would be deemed excessive, that portion of each sum paid attributable to 
that portion of such interest rate that exceeds the maximum rate of interest so permitted shall be deemed a 
voluntary prepayment of principal. For purposes of this Section, the term "applicable law" shall mean the 
law in effect as of the date hereof; provided, however, that in the event there is a change in the law which 
results in a higher permissible rate of interest, then this Agreement shall be governed by such new law as 
of its effective date. 

7.10  No  Third-Party  Beneficiary.  This  Agreement  constitutes  a  contract  solely  among  the 
parties by which it has been executed and is enforceable solely by the parties by which it has been executed 
and no other persons. It is the intention of the parties hereto that this Agreement may not be enforced on a 
third-party beneficiary or any similar basis. 

7.11 

The  County.  Notwithstanding  Section  7.10  herein,  each  of  Borrower  and  Lender 
acknowledges and agrees, for the benefit of the County and as a condition of participation in the Program, 
that:  (i)  the  County  undertakes  no  obligation  under  or  in  respect  of  any  Transaction  Document  or  the 
Program  Guide,  and  no  implied  covenants  or  obligations  of  the  County  shall  be  read  into  either,  (ii) 
regardless of any default by Borrower, the County has no obligation to make Assessment Payments to 
Lender, or any other payments in respect of the Loan, including, without limitation, any fees, expenses and 
other charges described in any Transaction Document, (iii) none of any Loan, Assessment Payment, Lien 
or other obligation arising from any Transaction Document, the Act or the Ordinance shall be  backed by 
(A) any credit of the County, (B) any credit of the Commonwealth or its political subdivisions, including, 
without limitation, the County, or (C) any taxes or governmental funds, (iv) none of any Loan, Assessment 
Payment, Lien or other obligation arising from any Transaction Document, the Act or the Ordinance shall 
constitute  an  indebtedness  within  the  meaning  of  any  constitutional  or  statutory  debt  limitation  or 
restriction, (v) the County has not made any representations, financial or otherwise, in  respect of Borrower, 
the Property or the Project, (vi) the County makes no representation or warranty as to, and assumes no 
responsibility with respect to, the accuracy or completeness of the Lien, or any assignment or amendment 
thereof, (vii) the County assumes no responsibility or liability in respect of the Project, or the planning, 
construction  or  operation  thereof,  (viii)  each  of  Borrower  and  Lender  shall,  upon  request,  provide  the 
County with any information related to the Project or the Loan that is reasonably necessary to confirm that 
the Project or Loan meets all requirements of the Act, the Ordinance and the Program Guide, (ix) each of 
Borrower and Lender shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Act, the Ordinance and the 
Program Guide, and (x) Lender shall reimburse the County, within ten (10) days upon written demand, for 
any  reasonable  out-of-pocket  expenses  incurred  by  the  County  in  connection  with  any  Transaction 
Document, including, without limitation, the preparation and Recording of the Lien or any assignment or 
amendment thereof. 

7.12 

Entire  Agreement.  THIS  AGREEMENT  AND  ANY  RELATED  AGREEMENTS  (i) 
CONSTITUTES THE FINAL AND ENTIRE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES, IN RESPECT 
OF  THE  SUBJECT  MATTER  HEREIN,  SUPERSEDING  ALL  CONFLICTING  TERMS  OR 
PROVISIONS OF ANY PRIOR PROPOSALS, APPROVAL LETTERS, TERM SHEETS OR OTHER 
AGREEMENTS  OR  UNDERSTANDINGS  BETWEEN  THE  PARTIES,  (ii)  MAY  NOT  BE 
CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF (A) ANY PRIOR WRITTEN OR ORAL AGREEMENTS OR 
UNDERSTANDINGS  OR 
(B)  ANY  CONTEMPORANEOUS  OR  SUBSEQUENT  ORAL 
AGREEMENTS  OR  UNDERSTANDINGS  BETWEEN  THE  PARTIES  AND  (iii)  MAY  NOT  BE 

21 

 

 

 

 
 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

AMENDED,  NOR  MAY  ANY  RIGHTS  THEREUNDER  BE  WAIVED,  EXCEPT  BY  AN 
INSTRUMENT IN WRITING SIGNED BY THE PARTY CHARGED WITH SUCH AMENDMENT OR 
WAIVER. 

7.13 

Time of the Essence. Time is of the essence in the payment and performance of all of 

Borrower’s obligations under this Agreement or any related agreement. 

7.14  Additional Collateral. Under this Agreement, the security for the Loan consists solely of 
the Lien on the Property. Any additional collateral, such as any new Mortgage on the Property or other 
assets of  Borrower  or  a security  interest in  any  Credits  or  Incentives, shall  be addressed  in  a  separate 
agreement among Borrower, Lender and any other required parties, as applicable. 

[Signature page follows] 

22 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

CLEAN ENERGY FINANCING 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Borrower and Lender have executed this Agreement as of the date 

first written above by and through their duly authorized representatives. 

[LENDER] 

By: 
Name: 
Title: 

[BORROWER] 

By: 
Name: 
Title: 
Taxpayer ID: 
Organizational ID (if any): 
Chief Executive Office: 
[  
[  
[  

] 
] 
] 

 

 

[Signature Page to Financing Agreement] 

23 

