 

 
 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

 

Chapter 65 

 

MEALS, FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAXATION 

§ 65-1. Definitions. 
§ 65-2. Levy. 
§ 65-3. Exemptions, Limitations, and Credits. 
§ 65-4. Certificate of Registration. 
§ 65-5. Collection. 
§ 65-6. Taxes Collected Held in Trust. 
§ 65-7. Filing of Tax Returns and Remittance of Tax. 
§ 65-8. Penalties, Interest, and Collection Fees. 
§ 65-9. Assessment and Collection of Omitted Taxes. 
§ 65-10. Posting Bond or Letter of Credit. 
§ 65-11. Records. 
§ 65-12. Sale or Cessation of Business. 
§ 65-13. Criminal Penalties. 
§ 65-14. Severability. 

 
§ 65-1. Definitions.  
 

The  following  words  and  terms,  when  used  in  this  chapter,  shall  have  the  following  meanings  unless  the 

context clearly indicates otherwise:  

 
“Caterer” means a person who prepares food at a business site in the County for compensation, for service, 

or consumption off the premises.  

 
“Commissioner of the Revenue” means the Commissioner of the Revenue of Arlington County and any of 

the Commissioner's designees.  

 
“Grocery  items”  means  food  and  foodstuffs,  green  groceries,  beverages  and  household  goods  usually 
prepackaged or measured into quantities for household use from containers made for retail grocery or baking sales 
and  not  generally  suitable  for  immediate  consumption  by  the  purchaser.  Grocery  items,  sometimes  called  staples, 
include,  by  way  of  illustration  and  not  limitation,  sugar,  flour,  spices,  dry  pasta,  loaves  of  bread,  ground  coffee, 
coffee  beans  and  loose  or  bagged  tea,  bottled  and  unopened  wine,  cooking  oils,  four  (4)  or  more  rolls,  donuts  or 
other baked goods, canned, bottled, and jarred goods (other than individual, nonalcoholic beverages sold with food).  

 
“Meals” means all food or beverages or both including alcoholic beverages and snack foods sold in a state 
ordinarily associated with consumption at one (1) period by a single person or a group, whether or not eaten in the 
place  where  it  is  bought  or  prepared  including  at  delicatessen  counters  of  grocery  and  convenience  stores  in  the 
County. The term "meals" does not include grocery items nor alcoholic beverages sold in factory-sealed containers 
for off-premises consumption.  

 
“Person”  means  any  business,  individual,  corporation,  company,  association,  firm,  partnership,  or  any 

combination of individuals of whatever form or character.  

 
“Purchaser” means any person who buys meals in or from a restaurant, caterer, or delicatessen counter at 

grocery or convenience stores.  

 
“Restaurant” means: 
 

Code Updated 9-2011 

65-1 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                             MEALS, FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX  

(1) 

(2) 

  

 
  

 

Any place in the County where meals are prepared for service to the public on or off the premises, 
or any place where meals are served. Examples of such places include, but are not limited to, any 
lunchrooms,  short  order  places,  cafeterias,  coffee  shops,  cafes,  taverns,  delicatessens,  dining 
accommodations of public or private clubs, and for profit schools; and 

Any  place  or  operation  which  prepares  or  stores  meals  for  distribution  to  persons  of  the  same 
business operation or of a related business operation for  service to the public. Examples of such 
places  or  operations  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  operations  preparing  or  storing  meals  for 
catering  services,  push  cart  operations,  hotdog  stands  and  other  mobile  points  of  service.  Such 
mobile  points  of  service  are  also  deemed  to  be  restaurants  unless  the  point  of  service  and  of 
consumption is in a private residence.  

“Seller” means any person who sells for money or other consideration meals in or from a restaurant, or as a 
caterer from business premises in the County or from a delicatessen counter at grocery or convenience stores in the 
County.  
 
“Treasurer” means the Treasurer of Arlington County and any of the Treasurer's designees.  

B.  

A.  

(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91; Ord. No. 00-19, 8-1-00) 
 
§ 65-2. Levy. 
 
 
Except as outlined in subparagraph B, there is hereby imposed and levied by Arlington County, in 
addition to all other taxes, fees, and charges of every kind now or hereafter imposed by law, a tax  upon all  meals 
sold for money or other consideration in, from, or by a restaurant or caterer, whether prepared in such restaurant or 
not and  whether consumed on the premises or not, and upon prepared sandwiches and single-meal platters  sold at 
the delicatessen counters of grocery and convenience stores, such tax to be at a rate of four percent (4%) on the total 
amount charged by the seller for the meal. In the computation of this tax, any fraction of one-half (1/2) cent or more 
shall be treated as one (1) cent. 
 
 
For meals sold by a restaurant or caterer specifically prepared for use on commercial airlines and 
delivered to the purchaser for that purpose, the tax rate shall be two percent (2%) of the total amount charged by the 
seller for the meal. In the computation of this tax, any fraction of one-half (1/2) cent or more shall be treated as one 
(1) cent.  
 
 
In  situations  where  any  amount  or  percentage,  whether  designated  as  a  gratuity,  tip,  or  service 
charge, is added to the price of the meal by the seller and required to be paid by the purchaser and the amount of said 
gratuity, tip or service charge exceeds twenty percent (20%) of the cost of the meal, said amount or percentage shall 
be included in the calculation of the amount charged for the meal. 
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91; Ord. No. 08-21, 11-15-08) 
 
§ 65-3. Exemptions, Limitations, and Credits. 
 
 
meals: 
 
  
 
  

Exemptions. The tax levied by § 65-2.A shall not be collected or assessed on the following sales of 

Meals sold through vending machines; 

Meals  sold  at  or  included  in  the  cost  of  accommodations  or  services  at  the  following  facilities: 
boardinghouses that do not accommodate transients, child care and senior care facilities, nursing 
homes,  senior  and  disabled  living  facilities,  hospitals,  and  public  or  nonprofit  institutions  of 
learning; 

A.  

C. 

1. 

2. 

 
  
 

3. 

4. 

Meals sold at cafeterias operated by industrial plants for employees only; 

a.  Meals  sold  by  nonprofit  organizations  including  churches,  fraternal,  civic  and  social 
organizations, volunteer fire departments and rescue squads, at occasional dinners and bazaars of 

Code Updated 9-2011 

65-2 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                             MEALS, FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX  

 
 

5. 

6. 

7. 

up to three (3) days duration at which meals prepared in the homes of members or in the kitchen of 
the church or organization are offered for sale to the public; 

b.  Meals  sold  by  nonprofit  organizations  including  churches,  fraternal,  civic  and  social 
organizations,  volunteer  fire  departments  and  rescue  squads,  at  occasional  dinners  or  special 
events,  of  up  to  three  (3)  days  duration  per  event,  if  the  nonprofit  organization  has  three  (3)  or 
fewer such events a year and the food or meals sold by the nonprofit organization to the public is 
prepared by the members of the nonprofit organization. 

Meals which churches serve for their members as a regular part of their religious observances; and 

Meals  sold  at  wholesale  for  resale,  which  sales  are  exempt  from  Virginia  sales  and  use  taxation 
under Chapter 6 of Title 58.1 of the Virginia Code. 

Meals sold for delivery in another state or the District of Columbia by caterers based in Arlington 
County to an entity which is exempt from a similar tax on the sale, delivery, or service of meals in 
the jurisdiction where the meal is served. This exemption is not applicable except upon proof that 
the entity in the foreign jurisdiction is exempt from a sales and use tax. This  section shall not be 
applicable  to  meals  sold  by  a  restaurant  or  caterer  specifically  prepared  for  use  on  commercial 
airlines and delivered to the purchaser for that purpose. 

B.  

Limitations. The following limitations on the tax levied by § 65-2 shall apply: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

Alcoholic  beverages  sold  in  factory-sealed  containers  for  off-premises  consumption  shall  not  be 
subject to this tax; 

Nonalcoholic beverages sold alone and not in connection with a meal shall not be subject to this 
tax; 

Meals  sold  by  enterprises  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Virginia  Department  for  the  Visually 
Handicapped which are exempted by state law from this tax are not subject to this tax; 

Meals for the elderly  which are exempt  from Virginia sales and use taxation pursuant to  § 58.1-
608.8.C. of the Virginia Code, as amended, are not subject to this tax; and 

Meals served by organizations exempt from business license taxes under Arlington County Code § 
11-61.3 are exempt from this tax. 

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

C.  

 
Credits. There shall be a credit for taxes paid by a seller as defined in this chapter in another state 
 
or the District of Columbia by reason of the imposition of a similar tax on the sale, delivery, or service of the meals 
subject to tax under this chapter in that other taxing jurisdiction to the extent the foreign jurisdiction's tax exceeds 
the Virginia sales tax, as reflected in the Code of Virginia, including the local portion of the tax. The amount of this 
credit shall not exceed the tax imposed by this chapter. Credit shall not be granted when the laws of the other taxing 
jurisdiction  provide  a  credit  for  payment  by  the  seller  of  Arlington  County's  meals  tax.  The  other  taxing 
jurisdiction's tax credit must be exhausted before any credit is granted under this  subsection. The credit under this 
subsection shall not be granted except upon proof of actual tax payments to the other jurisdiction based on the sale, 
delivery, or service of the same meals which are the subject of taxation under this chapter.  
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91; Ord. No. 93-14, 8-1-93; Ord. No. 96-18, 12-7-96; Ord. No. 00-19, 8-1-00; Ord. No. 08-21, 
11-15-08) 
 
§ 65-4. Certificate of Registration. 
 
Every person responsible for the collection of the tax levied by § 65-2 shall file an application for 
 
a certificate of registration with the Commissioner of the Revenue. The application shall be on a form prescribed by 
the  Commissioner of the  Revenue to provide information  for the assessment and collection of this tax and  for the 
enforcement  of  the  provisions  of  this  chapter.  The  application  shall  be  signed  under  oath  by  the  person  making 

A.  

Code Updated 9-2011 

65-3 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                             MEALS, FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX  

B.  

Upon approval of the application by the Commissioner of the Revenue, a certificate of registration 

application who shall be an officer, partner, or authorized agent of the applicant. 
 
 
authorizing the collection of this meals, food, and beverage tax shall be issued to the applicant. 
 
 
Each  person  with  a  certificate  of  registration  pursuant  to  this  section  shall  notify  the 
Commissioner  of  the  Revenue  of  any  changes  to  the  information  provided  on  their  application  for  the  certificate 
within thirty (30) days of the change.  
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91) 
 
§ 65-5. Collection.  
 

C.  

The tax levied by § 65-2, in each and every case, shall be collected by each seller from the purchaser at the 
time  that  the  charges  for  the  meals  are  due  and  payable,  whether  such  payment  is  made  in  cash,  by  check,  or  on 
credit by means of a credit card or otherwise. The seller shall separately state the amount of the tax and add such tax 
to the amount charged for the meal, and the tax shall be paid to the County by the seller as hereinafter provided.  
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91) 
 
§ 65-6. Taxes Collected Held in Trust.  
 

The taxes required to be collected under this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the County by 

B.  

A.  

the person required to collect such taxes until remitted to the County as required in this chapter.  
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91) 
 
§ 65-7. Filing of Tax Returns and Remittance of Tax. 
 
Every person required to collect the taxes levied under the provisions of this chapter shall file a tax 
 
return  for  each  calendar  month  and  upon  such  forms  as  the  Commissioner  of  the  Revenue  shall  prescribe.  Each 
monthly tax return shall be  filed  with the  Commissioner of the  Revenue  with remittance of the  tax required to be 
collected for the previous month. 
 
 
Such tax returns and remittances shall be made to the Commissioner of the Revenue on or before 
the twentieth day of each calendar month and shall cover the taxes required to be collected by the seller during the 
previous  month;  provided,  however,  that  when  the  Commissioner  of  the  Revenue  finds  any  seller  demonstrates  a 
pattern of late filing of tax returns or payment of taxes, the  Commissioner of the Revenue may require the filing of 
tax returns and remittance of taxes on a more frequent basis.  
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91) 
 
§ 65-8. Penalties, Interest, and Collection Fees. 
 
 
If a seller required to collect taxes pursuant to this chapter fails or refuses to file the tax returns or 
to remit the taxes collected or due within the time and in the amount specified by this chapter, there shall be added to 
such tax due a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the tax due. 
 
 
 
 
defense to any criminal prosecution for failure to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter.  
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91; Ord. No. 92-12, 4-25-92; Ord. No. 99-16, 7-10-99; Ord. No. 99-19, 8-14-99; Ord. No. 09-
23, 10-24-09) 
 
§ 65-9. Assessment and Collection of Omitted Taxes. 
 
 
If the Commissioner of the Revenue finds that any seller has failed to collect the taxes required by 
this chapter or has failed to remit taxes collected to the County, the Commissioner of the Revenue shall immediately 
assess such taxes, including penalty as provided in  § 65-8,  against the  seller as the  Commissioner of the  Revenue 

The assessment or payment of penalties or interest pursuant to this  section shall not be deemed a 

Interest shall accrue as prescribed in § 27-3. 

A.  

A.  

B.  

C.  

Code Updated 9-2011 

65-4 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                             MEALS, FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX  

C.  

B.  

Any  seller  who  neglects,  fails,  or  refuses  to  collect  the  taxes  due  under  this  chapter  from  the 

determines  are  due  pursuant  to  § 58.1-3903  of  the  Virginia  Code,  as  amended,  and  certify  such  assessment  to  the 
Treasurer for collection. 
 
 
purchaser shall be liable for and be assessed with and pay the omitted taxes due. 
 
 
undertake immediate collection action for the omitted taxes. 
 
 
any criminal prosecution for failure to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter.  
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91) 
 
§ 65-10. Posting Bond or Letter of Credit.  
 

The assessment and payment of omitted taxes under this section shall not be deemed a defense to 

Upon  receipt  of  a  certified  omitted  tax  assessment  due  under  this  chapter,  the  Treasurer  may 

D.  

The Commissioner of the Revenue shall require any seller with a record of late filing of the tax returns or 
of late remittance of the taxes required by this chapter to annually post a bond with corporate surety payable to the 
County to insure the seller's faithful performance of the seller's duties to the  County under this chapter. The bond, 
including the corporate surety thereon, shall be in an amount which is three (3) times the taxes collected or which 
should have been collected by the seller during the month previous to bonding, but in no case less than one thousand 
dollars ($1,000.00). An irrevocable letter of credit from a bank approved by the  County Manager with an expiration 
date not earlier than one (1) year from the date of issuance in the amount specified in this section and payable to the 
County may be accepted in lieu of the bond.  
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91) 
 
§ 65-11. Records.  
 

Every  seller  subject  to  the  requirements  of  this  chapter  shall  keep  and  preserve  books  of  account  and 
complete records of the sales  taxable or claimed exempt and the taxes paid under this  chapter for the current  year 
and the three (3) years last past.  
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91) 
 
§ 65-12. Sale or Cessation of Business.  
 

A.  

When any seller required to collect  and remit taxes to the  County under this  chapter ceases to operate or 
otherwise disposes of his business, any taxes collected by the seller are immediately due and payable to the  County, 
and the seller shall file a final tax return within fifteen (15) days of ceasing business.  
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91) 
 
§ 65-13. Criminal Penalties. 
 
 
Any person  who  willfully files a false or fraudulent tax return  with  intent to defraud the  County 
under the provisions of this chapter, or who willfully fails or refuses to file a tax return under the provisions of this 
chapter, shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor if the amount of the tax lawfully due in connection with the return 
is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or less and of a Class 1 misdemeanor if the amount of the tax lawfully due in 
connection with the return is more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). 
 
 
misdemeanor. 
 
 
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91) 
 
§ 65-14. Severability.  
 

Violations  or  failure  to  comply  with  any  other  provisions  of  this  chapter  shall  be  a  Class  3 

Each day any violation or failure to comply continues shall constitute a separate offense.  

B.  

C.  

It  is  hereby  declared  to  be  the  intention  of  the  County  Board  that  the  sections,  paragraphs,  clauses, 

Code Updated 9-2011 

65-5 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                             MEALS, FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX  

sentences, and parts of this chapter are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this 
chapter is declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, 
such  invalidity  shall  not  affect,  impair,  or  invalidate  the  remainder  of  this  chapter  or  the  application  of  such 
provisions  to  other  provisions  or  circumstances  but  shall  be  confined  in  its  application  to  the  section,  clause, 
sentence,  paragraph,  or  part  thereof  directly  involved  in  the  controversy  in  which  said  judgment  shall  have  been 
rendered and the person or circumstances involved.  

 
Should  any  exemption  from,  lower  rate  of,  or  limitation  on  this  tax  be  declared  invalid,  illegal, 
unconstitutional, or void for any reason, such declaration is not intended to affect the taxes imposed by this chapter, 
but  the  transactions  found  to  be  wrongfully  exempted,  limited,  or  subjected  to  lower  tax  rate  shall  become  fully 
subject  to  this  tax  to  the  same  extent  as  if  such  exemption,  attempted  exemption  or  limitation,  or  lower  rate  had 
never been included in this chapter.  
(Ord. No. 91-8, 6-1-91) 

Code Updated 9-2011 

65-6 

