  

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

 

Chapter 41.2 

 

CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 

§ 41.2-1. General Provisions. 
§ 41.2-2. Definitions. 
§ 41.2-3. Grant of Franchise. 
§ 41.2-4. Applications for Initial Grant, Renewal, Extension, or Modification of a Franchise. 
§ 41.2-5. Filing Fees. 
§ 41.2-6. Provision of Cable Service, Quality of Cable Service. 
§ 41.2-7. Design and Construction. 
§ 41.2-8. Channels and Facilities for Public, Educational and Governmental Use, Leased 
Access. 
§ 41.2-9. Consumer Protection. 
§ 41.2-10. Rate Regulation. 
§ 41.2-11. Franchise Fee. 
§ 41.2-12. Reports and Records. 
§ 41.2-13. Indemnification of the County and Residents. 
§ 41.2-14. Performance Bond, Security Fund, Revocation and Termination Due to 
Bankruptcy. 
§ 41.2-15. Transfers. 
§ 41.2-16. Open Video Systems. 
§ 41.2-17. Rights of Individuals Protected. 
§ 41.2-18. Administration. 
§ 41.2-19. Miscellaneous Provisions. 

Title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "County Cable Television Ordinance." 

 
§ 41.2-1. General Provisions. 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Purpose. 

A.  

B.  

1. 

It  is  the  policy  of  the  Board  to  provide  for  the  adequate,  economical,  and  efficient  delivery  of 
Cable  Service  to  Subscribers,  and  to  protect  Subscribers  from  excessive  prices  and  unfair 
competition.  The  following  purposes,  among  others,  underlie  the  provisions  set  forth  in  this 
chapter: 

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

Cable Service should be available to as many County residents as possible. 

A  Cable  System  should  be  capable  of  accommodating  both  present  and  reasonably 
foreseeable future cable-related needs of the County and its residents. 

A  Cable  System  should  be  constructed  and  maintained  during  a  Franchise  term  so  that 
changes  in  technology  may  be  integrated  to  the  maximum  extent  possible  into  existing 
System facilities. 

A Cable System should be responsive to the needs and interests of the local community, 
and should provide the widest possible diversity of information sources and service to the 
public. 

A cable operator should pay fair compensation to the  County for the use of local public 
rights-of-way,  and  reimburse  the  County  for  costs  and  expenses  incurred  as  a  result  of 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-1 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  

2. 

actions requested by a Franchisee for the benefit of the Franchisee. 

The  County  intends  that  all  provisions  set  forth  in  this  chapter  be  construed  to  serve  the  public 
interest and the foregoing public purposes, and that any  Franchise issued pursuant to this chapter 
be construed to include the foregoing public purposes as integral parts thereof. 

C.  

“Administrator” means the County Manager of Arlington County or his designee(s). 

“Access Channel” means any Channel on a Cable System set aside by a Franchisee for public, educational, 

 
Delegation of powers. To the extent permitted by law, the Board may delegate the performance of 
 
any act, duty, or obligation, or the exercise of any power, under this chapter or under any Certificate issued pursuant 
hereto, to any County employee, officer, department or agency.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-2. Definitions. 
 
Definitions and usage--General. For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and 
 
abbreviations  shall  have  the  meanings  given  herein,  unless  the  context  clearly  indicates  otherwise.  When  not 
inconsistent  with the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense;  words in the plural number 
include  the  singular  number,  words  in  the  singular  number  include  the  plural  number;  and  the  masculine  gender 
includes the  feminine  gender. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory. The  word "may" is permissive. Unless 
otherwise expressly stated, words not defined herein shall be given the meaning set forth in Title 47 of the United 
States Code, as amended, and, if not defined therein, words shall be given their common and ordinary meaning. 
 
 
or governmental use. 
 
 
 
 
ownership or control with a Franchisee. 
 
 
“Basic  Service”  means  any  service  tier  that  includes  the  retransmission  of  all  signals  of  locally-received 
television broadcast stations provided to any Subscriber (except a signal secondarily transmitted by satellite carrier 
beyond  the  local  service  area  of  such  station,  regardless  of  how  such  signal  is  ultimately  received  by  the  Cable 
System),  any  public,  educational  and  governmental  access  signals,  and  any  additional  video  programming  signals 
added to the basic tier by a Franchisee. 
 
 
 
 
from time to time. 
 
 
Basic Service and video programming offered on a pay-per-channel or pay-per-program basis. 
 
 
 
  

“Cable Act” means the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., as amended 

“Cable  Programming  Service”  means  any  video  programming  provided  over  a  Cable  System,  other  than 

“Affiliate”  means  any  Person  who  owns  or  controls,  is  owned  or  controlled  by,  or  is  under  common 

The  one-way  transmission  to  Subscribers  of  video  programming  or  other  programming  services; 
and 

“Board” means the County Board of Arlington County, Virginia. 

“Cable Service” means: 

(1) 

 
  

(2) 

Subscriber  interaction,  if  any,  which  is  required  for  the  selection  or  use  of  such  video 
programming or other programming service, including but not limited to Internet access. 

 
 
“Cable  System”  or  “System”  means  a  facility  consisting  of  a  set  of  closed  transmission  paths  and 
associated  signal  generation,  reception,  and  control  equipment  that  is  designed  to  provide  cable  television  service 
which includes video programming and which is provided to multiple Subscribers within the County, but such term 
does  not  include  (i)  a  facility  that  serves  only  to  retransmit  the  television  signals  of  one  (1)  or  more  television 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-2 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

“County” means Arlington County, Virginia, and any agency or department thereof. 

broadcast stations; (ii) a facility that serves Subscribers without using any Public Rights-of-Way; (iii) a facility of a 
common carrier which is subject, in whole or in part, to the provisions of Title II of the Communications Act, except 
that  such  facility  shall  be  considered  a  Cable  System  if  such  facility  is  used  in  the  transmission  of  video 
programming  directly  to  Subscribers,  unless  the  extent  of  such  use  is  solely  to  provide  interactive  on-demand 
services; (iv) an open video system that complies  with 47 U.S.C. § 573; or (v) any  facilities of any electric utility 
used solely for operating its electric utility system. A reference to a Cable System in this chapter refers to any part of 
such  System,  including,  without  limitation,  Converters.  The  foregoing  definition  of  "Cable  System"  shall  not  be 
deemed  to  circumscribe  or  limit  the  authority  of  the  County  to  regulate  or  Franchise  the  activities  of  any  other 
communications system or provider of communications services to the full extent permitted by law. Any Certificate 
issued  to  a  Franchisee  shall  define  the  services  which  the  Franchisee  is  authorized  to  provide  using  the  Public 
Rights-of-Way. 
 
 
“Certificate” means a certificate of public convenience and necessity entered into pursuant to this  chapter 
between  the  County  or  the  Board  and  a  Franchise  holder  that  sets  forth  the  terms  and  conditions  under  which  a 
Franchise will be granted and exercised. 
 
 
“Channel” means a band of frequencies six (6) megahertz wide in the electromagnetic spectrum, which is 
capable of carrying either one standard audio-video television signal, a number of audio, digital or other non-video 
signals, or some combination of such signals. 
 
 
“Converter”  means  an  electronic  device  which  may  serve  as  an  interface  between  a  System  and  a 
Subscriber's television receiver, and which may convert signals to a frequency not susceptible to interference within 
the television receiver of a Subscriber, permit a Subscriber to view all signals delivered at designated dial locations 
and perform a variety of functions, including signal security, descrambling, and electronic polling. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by a Franchisee for Noncommercial educational use. 
 
 
“Equitable Price” means Fair Market Value adjusted downward for any economic harm or property damage 
sustained by the County or Subscribers as a result of a Franchisee's breach of its Franchise or any violation of this 
chapter, and as further adjusted to account for other equitable factors that may be lawfully considered by the County. 
 
 
allocated to the Franchise itself. 
 
 
entity thereto. 
 
 
“Franchise”  means  a  non-exclusive  authorization  granted  pursuant  to  this  chapter  and  applicable  law  to 
construct, operate, and maintain a  Cable System  within the  Public Rights-of-Way to provide  Cable Service  within 
all or a specified area of the  County. Any such authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean or include 
any  license  or  permit  required  for  the  privilege  of  transacting  and  carrying  on  a  business  within  the  County  as 
required  by  State  or  County  laws,  ordinances  or  regulations,  or  for  attaching  devices  to  poles  or  other  structures, 
whether  owned  by  the  County  or  a  private  entity,  or  for  excavating  or  performing  other  work  in  or  along  Public 
Rights-of-Way. 
 
 
 
 

“Franchisee”  means  a  natural  Person,  partnership,  domestic  or  foreign  corporation,  stock  or  non-stock 

“Educational Access Channel” or “Educational Channel” means any Channel on a Cable System set aside 

“Fair  Market  Value”  means  the  price  for  a  Cable  System  valued  as  a  going  concern,  but  with  no  value 

“FCC”  means  the  Federal  Communications  Commission,  its  designee,  or  any  successor  governmental 

“Franchise Area” means the area of the County that a Franchisee is authorized to serve by its Certificate. 

“County Manager” means the administrative head of the County government or his designee. 

“Customer” means same as "Subscriber". 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-3 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

“Governmental  Access  Channel”  or  “Governmental  Channel”  means  any  Channel  on  a  Cable  System  set 

corporation, joint stock company, association, joint venture, limited liability company, professional limited liability 
company,  or  organization  of  any  kind  that  has  been  granted  a  Franchise  by  the  Board  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of applicable law. 
 
 
aside by a Franchisee for Noncommercial government use. 
 
 
“Gross  Revenues”  means any and all revenues, including cash, credits, property or other consideration of 
any kind or nature arising from, attributable to, or in any way derived directly or indirectly by a  Franchisee, or its 
Affiliates,  or  by  any  other  entity  that  is  a  cable  operator  of  a  Cable  System,  from  the  operation  of  a  Franchisee's 
System (including the studios and other facilities associated therewith) to provide  Cable Services. Gross  Revenues 
include,  by  way  of  illustration  and  not  limitation,  monthly  fees  charged  to  Subscribers  for  any  basic,  optional, 
premium,  per-channel,  per-program  service,  or  other  Cable  Service;  including,  without  limitation,  Internet  access 
fees  charged  to  Subscribers;  installation,  disconnection,  reconnection,  and  change-in-service  fees;  Leased  Access 
Channel fees; late fees and administrative fees; fees, payments, or other consideration received from programmers 
for  carriage  of  programming  on  the  System  and  accounted  for  as  revenue  under  GAAP;  revenues  from  rentals  or 
sales  of  Converters  or  other  equipment;  any  studio  rental,  production  equipment,  and  personnel  fees;  advertising 
revenues; barter; revenues from program guides; revenues from the sale or carriage of other cable-related services; 
and  revenues  from  home  shopping,  bank-at-home  Channels  and  other  revenue  sharing  arrangements.  Gross 
Revenues  shall  include  revenues  received  by  an  entity  other  than  the  Certificate  Holder,  an  Affiliate,  or  another 
entity that operates the System where necessary to prevent evasion or avoidance of the obligation under this chapter 
or a Franchise to pay the franchise fee. Gross Revenues shall not include: (i) to the extent consistent with generally 
accepted  accounting  principles,  actual  bad  debt  write-offs  not  to  exceed  two  percent  (2%)  of  annual  revenues, 
provided, however, that all or part of any such actual bad debt that is written off but subsequently collected shall be 
included in Gross Revenues in the period collected; or (ii) any taxes on services furnished by a Franchisee which are 
imposed directly on any  Subscriber or user by the  Commonwealth of Virginia, the  County, or other governmental 
unit and which are collected by the Franchisee on behalf of said governmental unit. A franchise fee is not such a tax. 
 
 
Subscriber-owned or Subscriber-provided terminal equipment. 
 
 
designated or dedicated for use by a Person unaffiliated with a Franchisee pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 532. 
 
 
“Noncommercial”  means  not  engaged  in  the  promotion  of  particular  products  and  services.  This  term, 
however, shall not be interpreted to prohibit Public, Educational and Governmental Access Channel operators from 
soliciting  and  receiving  financial  support  to  produce  and  transmit  video  programming  on  a  Public,  Educational  or 
Governmental Access Channel, or from acknowledging a contribution. 
 
 
p.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday. 
 
 
“Normal Operating Conditions” means those service conditions that are within the control of a Franchisee. 
Conditions  that  are  deemed  to  be  within  the  control  of  a  Franchisee  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  special 
promotions,  pay-per-view  events,  rate  increases,  regular  or  reasonable  anticipatable  peak  or  seasonal  demand 
periods, and maintenance or upgrade of a Cable System. Conditions that are deemed not to be within the control of a 
Franchisee  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  natural  disasters,  civil  disturbances,  power  outages,  telephone  network 
outages, and severe or unusual weather conditions. 
 
 
“Person”  means  an  individual,  partnership,  association,  joint  stock  company,  joint  venture,  domestic  or 
foreign  corporation,  stock  or  non-stock  corporation,  limited  liability  company,  professional  limited  liability 
company,  or  organization  of  any  kind,  or  any  lawful  successor  thereto  or  transferee  thereof.  Such  term  does  not 
include the County. 
 
 

“Leased  Access  Channel”  or  “Commercial  Access  Channel”  means  any  channel  on  a  Cable  System 

“Installation”  means  the  connection  of  System  services  to  Subscribers'  television  receivers  or  other 

“Normal  Business  Hours”  means  the  hours  from  8:00  a.m.  to  8:00  p.m.,  Monday  through  Friday,  and  12 

“Programmer”  means  any  Person  or  entity  that  produces  or  otherwise  provides  program  material  or 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-4 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

“Security Fund” means a performance bond, letter of credit, cash deposit, set aside letter, or other form of 

information  for  transmission  by  video,  audio,  digital  or  other  signals,  either  live  or  from  recorded  traces  or  other 
storage media, to Users or Subscribers by means of a Cable System. 
 
 
“Public  Access  Channel”  means  any  Channel  on  a  Cable  System  set  aside  by  a  Franchisee  for 
Noncommercial use by the general public, including groups and individuals, and which is available for such use on a 
non-discriminatory basis. 
 
 
“Public Rights-of-Way” means the surface, the air space above the surface, and the area below the surface 
of any public street, highway, lane, path, alley, sidewalk, avenue, boulevard, drive, concourse, bridge, tunnel, park, 
parkway, waterway, dock, bulkhead, wharf, pier, easement, or similar property or waters within the County in which 
the  County  now  or  hereafter  holds  any  property  interest,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  any  riparian  right,  which, 
consistent  with  the  purposes  for  which  it  was  created,  obtained  or  dedicated,  may  be  used  for  the  purpose  of 
installing, operating and maintaining a Cable System. No reference herein, or in any Certificate, to a "Public Right-
of-Way" shall be deemed to be a representation or guarantee by the  County that its interest or other right to control 
the  use  of  such  property  is  sufficient  to  permit  use  of  the  property  for  the  purpose  of  installing,  operating  and 
maintaining  a  Cable  System.  A  Franchisee  shall  be  deemed  to  gain  only  those  rights  to  use  the  property  as  are 
properly in the County, in its sole determination, and as the County may have the right and power to give. 
 
 
security acceptable to the Administrator. 
 
 
“Service Interruption” means loss of picture or sound on one or more cable channels, or a reduction in the 
quality  of  sound  or  picture  of  one  or  more  channels  below  the  average  level  of  over-the-air  broadcasts  received 
within a one mile radius of a Subscriber's location. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Transfer”  means  any  transaction  in  which  (i)  an  ownership  or  other  interest  in  a  Franchisee,  its  Cable 
System,  or  any  Person  that  is  a  cable  operator  of  the  Cable  System  is  transferred  from  one  Person  or  group  of 
Persons  to  another  Person  or  group  of  Persons  so  that  control  of  a  Franchisee  is  transferred;  or  (ii)  the  rights  or 
obligations  held  by  a  Franchisee  under  a  Certificate  are  transferred  or  assigned  to  another  Person  or  group  of 
Persons.  The  term  "control," as  used  in  this  definition,  means  working  control,  in  whatever  manner  exercised.  By 
way of illustration, and not limitation, the addition, deletion, or other change of any general partner of a  Franchisee, 
any Person who owns or controls a Franchisee, or a cable operator of a Cable System is such a change of control. 
 
 
producing or transmitting signals.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-3. Grant of Franchise. 
 
 
 
  

“User”  means  a  Person  or  organization  using  a  Channel  or  equipment  and  facilities  for  purposes  of 

“Subscriber” means any Person who legally receives any service delivered over a Cable System. 

“System Outage” means a Service Interruption affecting more than ten (10) Subscribers. 

“State” means the Commonwealth of Virginia, its agencies and departments. 

The Board may grant one or more cable Franchises, and each such Franchise shall be awarded in 
accordance with and subject to the provisions of this chapter and applicable law. 

Grant. 

A.  

1. 

 
  

 
  

2. 

No Person may construct or operate a Cable System within Arlington County without a Franchise. 
No  Person  may  be  granted  a  Franchise  without  having  been  issued  a  Certificate  by  the  Board 
pursuant to this chapter. 

3. 

This chapter may be amended from time to time, and in no event shall this chapter be considered a 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-5 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

contract between the county and a Franchisee or the Board and a Franchisee, such that the Board 
would  be  prohibited  from  exercising  its  legislative  discretion  to  amend  any  provision  of  this 
chapter. 

B.  

Term  of  franchise.  No  Franchise  shall  be  granted  for  a  period  of  more  than  fifteen  (15)  years, 

 
 
except that a Franchisee may apply at any time for renewal, extension, or modification pursuant to applicable law. 
 
 
 
  

Franchise characteristics. 

C.  

1. 

A  Franchise  authorizes  use  of  Public  Rights-of-Way  for  installing  cables,  wires,  lines,  optical 
fiber,  underground  conduit,  and  other  devices  necessary  and  appurtenant  to  the  operation  of  a 
Cable  System  to  provide  Cable  Service  within  a  Franchise  Area,  but  does  not  expressly  or 
implicitly  authorize  a  Franchisee  to  provide  service  to,  or  install  a  Cable  System  on,  private 
property without the owner's consent (except for use of compatible easements pursuant to § 621 of 
the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 541(a)(2)), or to use publicly or privately owned conduits or any other 
public property without a separate agreement with the owners thereof. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

A Franchise shall constitute both a right and an obligation to provide the Cable Services regulated 
by the provisions of this chapter and a Certificate. 

A  Franchise  is  non-exclusive  and  will  not: explicitly or implicitly preclude the issuance  of other 
Franchises to operate Cable Systems within the County; affect the County's right to authorize use 
of Public  Rights-of-Way by other  Persons to operate  Cable  Systems or  for other purposes as the 
County  deems  appropriate;  or  affect  the  County's  right  to  itself  construct,  operate,  or  maintain  a 
Cable System, with or without a Franchise. 

All privileges prescribed by a  Franchise shall be subordinate to (without limitation) the  County's 
use and any prior lawful occupancy of the Public Rights-of-Way. 

The  County  reserves  the  right  to  reasonably  designate  where  a  Franchisee's  facilities  are  to  be 
placed  within  the  Public  Rights-of-Way  and  to  resolve  any  disputes  among  users  of  the  Public 
Rights-of-Way. 

D.  

Franchisee subject to other laws, police power. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

A Franchisee at all times shall be subject to and shall comply with all applicable federal, State, and 
local laws. A Franchisee at all times shall be subject to all lawful exercise of the police power of 
the  County,  including  but  not  limited  to  all  rights  the  County  may  have  under  47  U.S.C.  §  552. 
Nothing  in  a  Certificate  shall  be  deemed  to  waive  the  requirements  of  the  various  codes, 
ordinances, policies, rules, regulations, and practices of the County and the Board. 

No course of dealing between a Franchisee and the County, or any delay on the part of the County 
in  exercising  any  rights  hereunder,  or  any  acquiescence  by  the  County  in  the  actions  of  a 
Franchisee  that  contravene  any  of  the  County's  rights  (except  to  the  extent  such  rights  are 
expressly  waived  by  the  County  in  writing),  shall  operate  as  a  waiver  of  any  such  rights  of  the 
County. 

The  County  shall  have  the  maximum  authority  to  regulate  Cable  Systems,  Franchisees,  and 
Franchises as may now or hereafter be lawfully permissible; unless rights are expressly waived in 
a Certificate, they are hereby reserved, whether expressly enumerated or not. 

The  County  and  the  Board  may,  from  time  to  time,  issue  such  rules  and  regulations  concerning 
Cable Systems as are consistent with, or authorized by, applicable law. 

5. 

The County and the Board may do all things which are necessary and convenient in the exercise of 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-6 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

its jurisdiction under this chapter. 

E.  

Interpretation of franchise terms. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The  provisions  of  this  chapter  and  any  Certificate  or  Franchise  shall  be  liberally  construed  to 
effectuate the purposes and objectives of this  chapter and the  Franchise or  Certificate, consistent 
with the public interest. 

The  terms  of  a  Franchise  or  Certificate  shall  be  subject  to  this  chapter.  In  the  event  of  a  clear 
conflict between this chapter and a Certificate or Franchise, the terms of this chapter shall control. 

Subject to federal law or regulation, a Certificate will be governed by and construed in accordance 
with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. 

F.  

 
Operation of a cable system without a franchise. Any Person occupying the Public Rights-of-Way 
 
of  the  County  for  the  purpose  of  operating  or  constructing  a  Cable  System,  which  Person  does  not  hold  a  valid 
Franchise  from  the  County,  shall  be  subject  to  all  provisions  of  this  chapter,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  those 
provisions regarding construction, technical standards and Franchise fees. The County at any time may require such 
Person to obtain a Certificate within thirty (30) days of receipt of a written notice from the County that a Certificate 
is  required;  require  such  Person  to  remove  its  property  from  the  Public  Rights-of-Way,  and,  at  such  Person's  sole 
expense,  restore  the  area  to  a  condition  satisfactory  to  the  County  within  a  reasonable  time  period  as  the  County 
shall determine; remove the property itself and restore the area to a satisfactory condition and charge the  Person the 
costs  therefor;  and/or  take  any  other  action  permitted  by  law,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  filing  for  and  seeking 
damages  for  trespass.  In  no  event  shall  a  Franchise  be  created  unless  it  is  issued  by  action  of  the  Board  and  the 
Franchise terms are set forth in a Certificate. 
 
Acts at franchisee's expense. Any act that a Franchisee is or may be required to perform under this 
 
chapter, a Certificate, or applicable law shall be performed at the Franchisee's expense, unless expressly provided to 
the contrary in this chapter, a Certificate, or applicable law. 
 
Eminent domain. Nothing herein shall be deemed or construed to impair or affect, in any way or to 
 
any extent, the County's rights of eminent domain to the extent to which such rights may apply to any Cable System.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-4. Applications for Initial Grant, Renewal, Extension, or Modification of a Franchise. 
 
 
 
  

A written application shall be filed with the  Administrator for the grant of an initial Franchise or 
modification of a Certificate pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 545. 

Application required. 

G.  

H.  

A.  

1. 

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

2. 

To  be  considered  accepted  for  filing,  a  fully  completed,  signed  original  application,  in  a  form 
prepared  by  or  acceptable  to  the  Administrator,  shall  be  submitted  as  provided  in  this  section 
together with twelve (12) copies. The application shall be accompanied by any required filing fee, 
conform  to  any  applicable  request  for  proposals,  and  contain  all  information  required  by  the 
County.  All  applications  shall  include  the  names  and  addresses  of  persons  authorized  to  act  on 
behalf of all applicants with respect to the application. 

3. 

To the extent permitted by law, all applications accepted for filing shall be made available by the 
County for public inspection. 

B.  

Application for grant of an initial franchise. 

1. 

A  Person  may  apply  for  an  initial  Franchise  by  submitting  an  application  containing  the 
information required in § 41.2-4.C to the Administrator. Upon receipt of such an application, the 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-7 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

Administrator  may  either  (i)  evaluate  the  application  pursuant  to  §  41.2-4.B.4,  conducting  such 
investigations  as  deemed  necessary;  or  (ii)  issue  a  Request  for  Proposals  ("RFP"),  after 
conducting, if necessary, a proceeding to identify the future cable-related needs and interests of the 
community.  Any  such  RFP  shall  be  mailed  to  any  Person  requesting  its  issuance  and  made 
available to any other interested Person. The RFP may contain a proposed Certificate. 

2. 

3. 

An applicant shall respond to a RFP by  filing a proposal with  the  Administrator  within the  time 
directed  by  the  County,  providing  the  information  and  material  set  forth  in  §  41.2-4.C.  The 
procedures,  instructions,  and  requirements  set  forth  in  the  RFP  shall  be  followed  by  each 
applicant. Any applicant that has already filed materials pursuant to § 41.2-4.B.1 herein need not 
refile the same materials with its proposal, but shall clearly identify each portion of the previously 
filed  materials  that  are  intended  to  satisfy  the  RFP  requirements.  The  applicant  shall  further 
amplify  its  application  to  include  any  additional  or  different  materials  required  by  the  RFP. The 
Administrator may seek additional information from any applicant and establish deadlines for the 
submission of such information. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ 41.2-4.B.1 and 41.2-4.B.2, a Person may apply for an Initial 
Franchise by submitting an unsolicited application containing the information required in  § 41.2-
4.C and requesting an evaluation of that application pursuant to  § 41.2-4.B.4. Prior to evaluating 
that application, the Administrator may conduct, or cause to be conducted, such investigations as 
are necessary to determine whether the application satisfies the standards set forth in § 41.2-4.B.4 
and may seek additional applications by RFP or otherwise. 

4. 

In evaluating an application for a Franchise, the Administrator shall consider, among other things, 
the following factors: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

F. 

The extent to which the applicant has substantially complied with applicable law and the 
material terms of any existing cable Franchise for the County; 

Whether  the  quality  of  the  applicant's  service  under  any  existing  Franchise  or  similar 
grant  in  the  County,  including  signal  quality,  response  to  customer  complaints,  billing 
practices,  and  the  like,  has  been  reasonable  in  light  of  the  needs  and  interests  of  the 
communities served; 

Whether  the  applicant  has  the  financial,  technical,  and  legal  qualifications  to  provide 
Cable Service; 

Whether  the  application  satisfies  any  minimum  requirements  established  by  the  County 
and  is  otherwise  reasonable  to  meet  the  future  cable-related  needs  and  interests  of  the 
community, taking into account the cost of meeting such needs and interests; 

Whether,  to  the  extent  not  considered  under  §  41.2-4.B.4.d,  the  applicant  will  provide 
adequate  Public,  Educational,  and  Governmental  Access  Channel  capacity,  facilities,  or 
financial support; 

Whether issuance of a  Franchise is in the public interest considering the immediate and 
future effect on the Public Rights-of-Way and private property that would be used by the 
Cable  System,  including  the  extent  to  which  installation  or  maintenance  as  planned 
would require replacement of property or involve disruption of property, public services, 
or  use  of  the  Public  Rights-of-Way;  the  effect  of  granting  a  Franchise  on  the  ability  of 
cable  to  meet  the  cable-related  needs  and  interests  of  the  community;  and  the 
comparative superiority or inferiority of competing applications; and 

g. 

What effects a grant of the application may have on competition in the delivery of Cable 
Service in the County. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-8 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  

 
  

5. 

6. 

After  evaluating  a  fully-completed  application,  including  all  additional  information  requested  by 
the County, the Administrator shall transmit recommendations to the Board. 

If the Board finds that it is in the public interest to issue a Franchise after considering the factors 
set  forth  in  §  41.2-4.B.4  and  any  other  relevant  factors  permitted  by  law  to  be  considered,  and 
subject to the applicant's agreement to the terms of an appropriate Certificate, the Board shall issue 
a  Franchise,  after  complying  with  the  public  hearing  requirements  of  §  41.2-4.G.  If  the  Board 
denies the request for a Franchise, then the Board will issue a written decision explaining why the 
Franchise was denied. Prior to deciding whether or not to issue a  Franchise, the Board may hold 
one (1) or more public hearings or implement other procedures under  which comments  from the 
public  on  an  application  may  be  received.  The  Board  also  may  grant  or  deny  a  request  for  a 
Franchise  based  on  its  review  of  an  application  without  further  proceedings  and  may  reject  any 
application that is incomplete or fails to respond to an RFP. This chapter is not intended and shall 
not be interpreted to grant any applicant or existing Franchisee standing to challenge the denial of 
its application or the issuance of a Franchise to another. 

Contents of  application. An  RFP for the grant of an initial  Franchise shall require, and any  such 

C.  

 
 
application shall contain, at a minimum, the following information: 
 
  

1. 

The name, address and form  of business of  the applicant,  and an identification of the ownership 
and control of the applicant, including: the names and addresses of the ten (10) largest holders of 
an  ownership  interest  in  the  applicant  and  Affiliates  of  the  applicant,  and  all  Persons  with  five 
percent  (5%)  or  more  ownership  interest  in  the  applicant  and  its  Affiliates;  the  Persons  who 
exercise  working control over the applicant and its  Affiliates, and the  Persons  who control those 
Persons, to the ultimate parent; all officers and directors of the applicant and its Affiliates; and any 
other business affiliation and Cable System ownership interest of each named Person. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

A demonstration of the applicant's technical ability to construct and/or operate the proposed Cable 
System, including identification of key personnel. 

A  demonstration  of  the  applicant's  legal  qualifications  to  construct  and/or  operate  the  proposed 
Cable System, including but not limited to a demonstration that the applicant meets the following 
criteria: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

If the Board has lawfully denied an applicant's previous request for an initial Franchise or 
a Franchise renewal, then that applicant may not apply for an initial or renewal Franchise 
again until at least three (3) years have elapsed since the date of such lawful denial; 

The  applicant  shall  not  have  had  any  cable  television  Franchise  validly  revoked  by  any 
franchising  authority  within  three  (3)  years  preceding  the  date  of  the  submission  of  the 
application; 

The  applicant  shall  have  the  necessary  authority  under  Virginia  law  to  operate  a  Cable 
System; 

The applicant shall have the necessary authority under federal law to hold the  Franchise 
and  operate  a  Cable  System.  An  applicant  shall  have,  or  show  that  it  is  qualified  to 
obtain,  any  necessary  federal  licenses  or  waivers  required  to  operate  the  System 
proposed; 

The applicant is  willing to enter into a  Franchise,  to pay required compensation, and  to 
abide  by  the  provisions  of  applicable  law,  including  those  relating  to  the  construction, 
operation or repair of its facilities, and has not entered into any agreement which would 
prevent the applicant from doing so; 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-9 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 

  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 

f. 

g. 

h. 

The  applicant  shall  not  be  issued  a  Franchise  if,  at  any  time  during  the  ten  (10)  years 
preceding  the  date  of  submission  of  the  application,  the  applicant  was  convicted  of  any 
act  or  omission  of  such  character  that,  in  the  sole  opinion  of  the  County,  the  applicant 
cannot be relied upon to deal truthfully with the County and the Subscribers of the Cable 
System,  or  to  substantially  comply  with  its  lawful  obligations  under  applicable  law, 
including  acts  of  moral  turpitude,  and  obligations  under  consumer  protection  laws  and 
laws prohibiting anticompetitive acts, fraud, racketeering, or other similar conduct; 

The applicant shall not be issued a Franchise if it files materially misleading information 
in  its  application  or  intentionally  withholds  information  that  the  applicant  lawfully  is 
required to provide; and 

The  applicant  shall  not  be  issued  a  Franchise  if  an  elected  official  of  the  County  has  a 
personal  interest  in  the  Franchise,  unless  otherwise  permitted  by  the  Virginia  State  and 
Local Government Conflict of Interests Act, Va. Code §§ 2.2-3100 through 2.2-3131, or 
holds a controlling interest in the applicant or an Affiliate of the applicant.  

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  and  to  the  extent  permitted  by  applicable  law,  the  Board  shall 
provide  an  applicant  with  an  opportunity  to  show  that  it  would  be  inappropriate  to  deny  it  a 
Franchise by virtue of the particular circumstances surrounding the matter and the steps taken by 
the  applicant  to  cure  all  harms  flowing  therefrom  and  prevent  their  recurrence,  the  lack  of 
involvement  of  the  applicant's  principals,  or  the  remoteness  of  the  matter  from  the  operation  of 
Cable Systems. 
 
A demonstration of the financial qualifications of the applicant, including at least the following: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

The applicant's proposed rate structure, including projected charges for each  service tier, 
Installation, Converters, and all other proposed equipment or services for the ensuing five 
(5) years; 

A certified  statement prepared by a certified public accountant regarding  the applicant's 
financial ability to complete the construction proposed, to meet the time frame proposed 
and  to  operate  the  Cable  System  proposed.  If  an  applicant  is  a  joint  venture  or 
partnership,  the  same  information  shall  be  provided  for  each  participant  in  the  joint 
venture or partnership; and 

Pro Forma financial projections for the proposed franchise term, including a statement of 
projected  income,  and  a  schedule  of  planned  capital  additions,  with  all  significant 
assumptions explained in notes or supporting schedules. 

A  description  of  the  applicant's  prior  experience  in  Cable  System  ownership,  construction,  and 
operation,  and  an  identification  of  each  locality  in  which  the  applicant  or  any  of  its  principals 
have, or have had, a cable Franchise or any interest therein, including the name, address and phone 
number of each local franchising authority and references from each authority. 

A written description and a detailed map of the exact area or areas of the  County to be served by 
the proposed Cable System, including a description of the proposed Franchise Area's boundaries. 

A detailed description of the physical facilities proposed to be provided within Arlington  County, 
which description shall include at least the following: 

a. 

A  description  of  the  channel  capacity,  technical  design,  performance  characteristics, 
headend, access (and institutional network) facilities and equipment; 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-10 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 

b. 

c. 

The  location  of  the  proposed  System  and  System  design,  including  a  description  of  the 
miles  of  plant  to  be  installed,  and  a  description  of  the  size  of  equipment  cabinets, 
shielding  and  electronics  that  will  be  installed  along  the  plant  route,  the  power  sources 
that will be used and a description of the noise, exhaust and pollutants, if any that will be 
generated by the operation of the same; 

A  map  of  the  route  the  Cable  System  will  follow;  a  designation  of  the  portions  of  the 
System  that  will  be  placed  above-ground  and  portions  that  will  be  placed  underground, 
and the construction techniques that the operator proposes to use in installing the System 
above-ground  and  underground;  where  applicable,  a  schedule  for  construction  of  the 
System,  describing  when  and  where  construction  will  begin,  how  it  will  proceed,  and 
when  it  will  be  completed;  and  the  expected  effect  on  right-of-way  usage,  including 
information  on  the  ability  of  the  Public  Rights-of-Way  to  accommodate  the  proposed 
System, an estimate of the availability of space in conduits, and an estimate of the cost of 
any necessary rearrangement of existing facilities; and 

d. 

A  description,  where  appropriate,  of  how  services  will  be  converted  from  existing 
facilities to new facilities, and what will be done with existing facilities. 

A  demonstration  of  how  and  when  the  applicant  will  reasonably  meet  the  future  cable-related 
needs  and  interests  of  the  community,  including  descriptions  of  how  the  applicant  will  meet  the 
needs described in any recent community needs assessment conducted by or for the  County, and 
how and when the applicant will provide adequate Public, Educational, and Governmental Access 
Channel capacity, facilities, or financial support to meet the community's needs and interests. 

Copies of any agreements  which an applicant has entered into or proposes to enter into with any 
other Person relating to the proposed System. 

If the applicant proposes to provide Cable Service to an area already served by an existing Cable 
Franchisee, a written description and a detailed map of the area where the overbuild would occur 
and the ability of the Public Rights-of-Way and other property that would be used by the applicant 
to accommodate an additional System. 

To  the  extent  an  applicant  is  in  any  respect  relying  on  the  financial  or  technical  resources  of 
another  Person,  including  an  Affiliate,  the  proofs  required  under  §§  41.2-4.C.2  and  41.2-4.C.4 
shall be provided for that Person. 

Any  other  information  that  the  Administrator  determines  is  reasonably  necessary  to  demonstrate 
compliance by the applicant with the requirements of this chapter. 

Any additional information that the Administrator or the Board may request of the applicant that is 
relevant to the County's consideration of the application. 

An affidavit or declaration of the applicant or authorized officer certifying the truth and accuracy 
of  the  information  in  the  application,  acknowledging  the  enforceability  of  application 
commitments, and certifying that the application meets all federal and State law requirements. 

A declaration that no Person not shown in the application has, or without the prior written consent 
of the Board, will have, any equity interest in the Franchise exceeding five percent (5%). 

A declaration that the applicant agrees to comply with this  chapter, and will abide by the Board's 
decision to grant or deny a Franchise. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

D.  

Application for grant of a renewal franchise or extension. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-11 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

  

1. 

 
  

2. 

If  neither  a  renewal  applicant  nor  the  County  activates  in  a  timely  manner  or  can  activate  the 
renewal process set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 546(a)-(g) (including, for example, if the provisions are 
amended or repealed), and except as to applications submitted pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 546(h), the 
provisions of §§ 41.2-4.A--C shall apply and a renewal request shall be evaluated using the same 
criteria  as  any  other  request  for  a  Franchise.  The  following  requirements  shall  apply  to  renewal 
requests properly submitted pursuant to the Cable Act and this chapter. 

If  the  provisions  of  47  U.S.C.  §  546(a)-(g)  are  properly  invoked,  the  County  shall  issue  an  RFP 
after  conducting  a  proceeding  to:  (i)  review  the  renewal  applicant's  past  performance;  and  (ii) 
identify the County's future cable-related community needs and interests. The Administrator shall 
establish  deadlines  and  procedures  for  responding  to  the  RFP,  may  seek  additional  information 
from the applicant, and shall establish deadlines for the submission of that additional information. 
Following  receipt  of  the  application  responding  to  the  RFP  (and  such  additional  information  as 
may  be  provided  in  response  to  requests  by  the  County),  the  Board  shall  determine  that  the 
Franchise should be renewed, or make a preliminary assessment that the  Franchise should not be 
renewed. This determination  shall be  made in accordance with the time limits established by the 
Cable  Act.  The  preliminary  determination  shall  be  made  by  Resolution.  If  the  Board  determines 
that the Franchise should not be renewed, and the applicant that submitted the renewal application 
notifies  the  County,  either  in  its  RFP  response  or  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  the  preliminary 
assessment,  that  the  applicant  wishes  to  pursue  any  rights  to  an  administrative  proceeding  it  has 
under  the  Cable  Act,  then  the  County  shall  commence  an  administrative  proceeding  after 
providing  prompt  public  notice  thereof,  in  accordance  with  the  Cable  Act.  If  the  Board  decides 
preliminarily to grant renewal, the Administrator shall prepare a final Certificate that incorporates, 
as appropriate, the commitments made by the applicant in the renewal application. If the applicant 
accepts  the  Certificate,  and  the  final  Certificate  is  ratified  by  the  Board  in  accordance  with 
applicable laws and procedures including, but not limited to, the public hearing requirements of § 
41.2-4.G, the Franchise shall be renewed. If the  Certificate is not so accepted and ratified within 
the  time  limits  established  by  47  U.S.C.  §  546(c)(1),  renewal  shall  be  deemed  preliminarily 
denied, and an administrative proceeding commenced, if the applicant that submitted the renewal 
application  requests  a  proceeding  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  the  expiration  of  the  time  limit 
established by 47 U.S.C. § 546(c)(1). 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 

3. 

If  an  administrative  proceeding  is  commenced  pursuant  to  47  U.S.C.  §  546(c),  the  applicant's 
renewal application  shall be evaluated considering  such  matters as  may be considered consistent 
with federal law. The following procedures shall apply: 

a. 

b. 

The  Board  shall,  by  Resolution,  appoint  an  administrative  hearing  officer  or  officers 
(referred  to  hereafter  as  "hearing  officer").  The  Board  may  appoint  itself  as  hearing 
officer.  The  hearing  officer  shall  conduct  a  formal  administrative  hearing  at  which  the 
County and the applicant shall have the right to present evidence. 

The  hearing  officer  shall  establish  a  schedule  for  the  hearing  which  allows  for 
documentary  discovery  and  interrogatory  responses,  production  of  evidence,  and  cross-
examination of witnesses. Depositions shall not be permitted unless the party requesting 
the  deposition  shows  that  documentary  discovery  and  interrogatory  responses  will  not 
provide it  with an adequate opportunity to require the production of evidence necessary 
to present its case. The hearing officer shall have the authority to require the production 
of  evidence  as  the  interests  of  justice  may  require,  including  the  right  to  require  the 
production  of  evidence  by  the  applicant  that  submitted  the  renewal  application  and  any 
entity that owns or controls or is owned or controlled by, or under common control with, 
such applicant directly or indirectly. The hearing officer may issue protective orders, but 
shall not prohibit discovery on the ground that evidence sought is proprietary or involves 
business secrets.  Any order may be enforced by a court of competent jurisdiction or by 
imposing appropriate sanctions in the administrative hearing. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-12 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

c. 

d. 

e. 

f. 

g. 

The  hearing  officer  may  conduct  a  prehearing  conference  and  establish  appropriate 
prehearing  orders.  Intervention  by  non-parties  is  not  authorized,  except  to  the  extent 
required by the Cable Act. 

The  hearing  officer  shall  require  the  County  and  the  applicant  to  submit  prepared 
testimony  prior  to  the  hearing.  Unless  the  parties  agree  otherwise,  the  applicant  shall 
present evidence first, the County shall present evidence second, and the applicant shall 
then have an opportunity for rebuttal. 

Any  reports  or  the  transcript  or  summary  of  any  proceedings  conducted  pursuant  to  47 
U.S.C.  §  546(a)  shall,  for  purposes  of  the  administrative  hearing,  be  regarded  no 
differently  than any other evidence. The  County and the applicant shall be afforded full 
procedural protection regarding evidence related to these proceedings, including the right 
to refute any evidence introduced in these proceedings or sought to be introduced by the 
other party. Both parties shall have the opportunity to submit additional evidence related 
to issues raised in the proceeding conducted pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 546(a). 

Following  completion  of  any  hearing,  the  hearing  officer  shall  require  the  parties  to 
submit proposed findings of fact with respect to the matters that the  County is entitled to 
consider in determining whether renewal ought to be granted. Based on the record of the 
hearing, the hearing officer thereafter shall prepare written findings with respect to those 
matters  the  County  may  consider,  and  submit  those  findings  to  the  Board  and  to  the 
parties  (unless  the  hearing  officer  is  the  Board,  in  which  case  the  written  findings  shall 
constitute the final decision of the County). 

If the hearing officer is not the Board, the parties shall have thirty (30) days from the date 
the  findings  are  submitted  to  the  Board  to  file  exceptions  to  those  findings.  The  Board 
shall  thereafter issue a  written decision granting or denying the application  for renewal, 
consistent  with  the requirements of the Cable  Act and based on the record of  the entire 
administrative  proceeding,  including,  without  limitation,  the  RFP,  the  response  to  the 
RFP, the formal hearing, the findings of fact, and any exceptions to the findings of fact. A 
copy of the final decision of the Board shall be provided to the applicant. 

h. 

In  conducting  the  proceedings,  the  hearing  officer  will  apply  such  procedures  and 
requirements as may be necessary in the interest of justice. 

4. 

Notwithstanding the above, a cable operator may submit an application for renewal of a Franchise 
pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 546(h). Such a proposal may be submitted at any time and the Board may, 
after  affording  the  public  adequate  notice  and  opportunity  for  comment,  grant  or  deny  such 
proposal  at  any  time  (including  after  proceedings  have  been  commenced  in  accordance  with  47 
U.S.C. § 546(a)). An informal renewal application  may be  denied for any reason. If an informal 
renewal  application  is  granted,  then  the  steps  specified  in  subsections  D.2  and  D.3.(a--g)  of  this 
section need not be taken, notwithstanding the provisions of those subsections. 

5. 

The provisions of this § 41.2-4.D shall be read and applied so that they are consistent with Section 
626 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 546. 

E.  

 
Extension of a franchise. If a Franchisee is requesting a Franchise extension of more than twelve 
 
(12)  months,  the  Franchisee  shall  submit  an  application  to  the  Administrator  that  contains  all  of  the  information 
required by § 41.2-4.C of this Chapter. If a Franchisee is requesting a Franchise extension of twelve (12) months or 
less, the foregoing application requirement shall not apply, and the Franchisee shall only file a written request with 
the Administrator that (i) explains the reason(s) for the proposed extension and (ii) describes any proposed terms and 
conditions. 
 
 

Application for modification of a franchise. 

F.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-13 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

1. 

An  application  for  modification  of  a  Certificate  shall  include,  at  minimum,  the  following 
information: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

The specific modification requested; 

The  justification  for  the  requested  modification,  including  the  impact  of  the  requested 
modification  on  Subscribers  and  others,  and  the  financial  impact  on  the  applicant  if  the 
modification is approved or disapproved, demonstrated through, inter alia, submission of 
pro forma financial statements; 

A statement indicating whether the modification is sought pursuant to § 625 of the Cable 
Act, 47 U.S.C. § 545, and, if so, a demonstration that the  requested  modification  meets 
the standards set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 545; 

Any other information that the applicant believes is necessary for the County to make an 
informed determination on the application for modification; and 

An affidavit or declaration of the applicant or authorized officer certifying the truth and 
accuracy  of  the  information  in  the  application,  and  certifying  that  the  application  is 
consistent with the requirements of applicable law. 

2. 

A  request  for  modification  submitted  pursuant  to  47  U.S.C.  §  545  shall  be  considered  in 
accordance with the requirements of that section. 

G.  

 
Public  hearings.  An  applicant  for  an  initial  Franchise,  or  modification  or  renewal  of  an  existing 
 
Franchise, shall be notified of any public hearings held in connection with the evaluation of its application and shall 
be given an opportunity to be heard. In addition, prior to the issuance of a Franchise, the Board shall provide for the 
holding of a public hearing, following reasonable notice to the public, at which every applicant and its applications 
shall be examined and the public and all interested parties afforded a reasonable opportunity to be heard. 
 
Acceptance of franchise. Following approval by the Board, any Franchise granted pursuant to this 
 
chapter, and the rights, privileges and authority granted by a  Certificate, shall take effect and be in force from and 
after the first date on which both the Franchisee and the County have accepted and signed the Certificate.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-5. Filing Fees.  
 

H.  

To  be  acceptable  for  filing,  an  application  for  an  initial  Franchise,  a  renewal  Franchise,  a  Transfer,  a 
Franchise modification or a Franchise extension shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable filing fee, payable to the 
Treasurer  of  Arlington  County,  Virginia,  in  the  following  amount  or  the  maximum  amount  permitted  by  law, 
whichever is greater, to cover costs incidental to the award, renewal,  modification, or extension of a  Franchise, as 
appropriate: 

  
 

 

 
  
 

 

 
A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

For an initial Franchise: 

A request for issuance of an RFP: five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) 

A Response to an RFP or an unsolicited application: five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) 

For an existing Franchise: 

For renewal of a Franchise: ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) 

For modification of a Certificate: five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) 

 

41.2-14 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 

 

 

3. 

4. 

For review of a Transfer: five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) 

For extension of a Franchise for a period greater than twelve (12) months: seven thousand and five 

hundred dollars ($7,500.00) 

In addition to the foregoing initial filing fees, an applicant shall reimburse the  County for the actual costs 
and expenses incurred by the County that are related to, or arise in the course of, reviewing and processing of each 
application described in subsections A and B above, including the costs of legal, engineering, accounting and other 
consultants retained by the County, or services obtained by the  County, to assist in reviewing the application. The 
Franchisee shall reimburse the  County  for any such costs within thirty (30) days of receipt of an invoice from the 
County.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-6. Provision of Cable Service, Quality of Cable Service. 
 
Provision  of  service.  In  addition  to  satisfying  such  requirements  as  may  be  established  in  a 
 
Franchise, every Franchisee shall operate its Cable System subject to the following conditions, except as prohibited 
by federal law: 
 
  

It is the policy of the County that every Franchisee shall provide service throughout its Franchise 
Area  upon request to any  Person. Service  shall be provided  within the time limits specified in  § 
41.2-6.A.2. 

A.  

1. 

 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  
 
 
 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

Except  as  a  Franchise  otherwise  provides,  a  Franchisee  shall  extend  service  to  any  Person  or  to 
any government building in the Franchise Area which requests it within seven (7) business days of 
the request. 

Upon the request of the  County, every Franchisee shall provide the following, free of charge, to: 
(i) each floor of all buildings, or portions thereof, in its Franchise Area that are owned or leased by 
the County or the Arlington County Public Schools; (ii) all public institutions of higher education 
in the County; and (iii) all certified K--12 schools in the County: 

a. 

b. 

At least one (1) service drop and outlet; 

At least one (1) Converter, which shall be replaced with a digital Converter, as necessary, 
to receive Basic Service and Cable Programming Service; and 

c. 

Activated Basic Service and Cable Programming Service. 

B.  

Quality of service. 

1. 

2. 

To  the  extent  permitted  by  law,  a  Franchisee's  Cable  System  within  the  County  shall  meet  or 
exceed  the  technical  standards  set  forth  in  47  C.F.R.  §  76.601,  et  seq.,  and  any  other  applicable 
technical standards. 

A Franchisee shall perform, at its sole cost, all tests necessary to demonstrate compliance with the 
requirements  of  a  Certificate  and  other  technical  and  performance  standards  established  by 
applicable  law.  Unless  a  Certificate  or  applicable  law  provides  otherwise,  all  tests  shall  be 
conducted in accordance with federal rules and in accordance with the most recent edition of the 
National  Cable  Television  Association's  "Recommended  Practices  for  Measurements  on  Cable 
Television Systems," or such other manual as may be directed under FCC regulations. A written 
report of any test results shall be filed with the  County within fourteen (14) days of a request by 
the  Administrator.  If  a  location  fails  to  meet  technical  or  performance  specifications,  the 
Franchisee,  without  requirement  of  additional  notice  or  request  from  the  County,  shall  promptly 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-15 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

take corrective action, and retest the locations. 

C.  

Interconnection. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A  Franchisee  shall  design  its  Cable  System  so  that  it  may  be  interconnected  with  other  Cable 
Systems or similar communications systems in the area. Interconnection of systems may be made 
by direct cable connection,  microwave link, satellite or other appropriate  methods.  A  Franchisee 
shall  cooperate  with  any  interconnection  corporation,  regional  interconnection  authority,  or  state 
or  federal  regulatory  agency  which  may  be  hereafter  established  for  the  purpose  of  regulating, 
facilitating,  financing or otherwise  providing  for the interconnection of communications  systems 
beyond the boundaries of the County. 

Upon receiving the directive of the County to interconnect, a Franchisee shall immediately initiate 
negotiations  with  the  other  affected  system  or  systems.  The  County  may  grant  reasonable 
extensions  of  time  to  interconnect  or  rescind  its  request  to  interconnect  upon  petition  by  a 
Franchisee to the County. 

No  interconnection  shall  take  place  without  notice  to  the  County,  and  a  demonstration  that  all 
signals to be interconnected will comply with applicable FCC technical standards for all classes of 
signals. 

System  maintenance.  Scheduled  maintenance  shall  be  performed  by  a  Franchisee  so  as  to 

D.  

 
 
minimize the effect of any necessary interruptions of Cable Service. 
 
 
 
  

Continuity of service. 

E.  

1. 

It is the right of all Subscribers in a Franchise Area to continuously receive all available services 
from a Franchisee as long as their financial and other obligations to the Franchisee are satisfied. 

 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

A Franchisee shall ensure that all Subscribers receive continuous and uninterrupted service. At the 
County's request, a Franchisee shall, as trustee for its successor in interest, operate its System for a 
temporary  period  (the  "Transition  Period")  following  the  termination  or  revocation  of  its 
Franchise, as necessary to maintain service to Subscribers, and shall cooperate with the County to 
assure an orderly transition from the existing Franchisee to the successor Franchisee. 

During such Transition Period, a Franchisee shall neither sell any of the System assets, nor make 
any physical, material, administrative or operational change that would tend to reduce the quality 
of service to Subscribers, decrease the System's income, or materially increase expenses, without 
the express written permission of the County. 

The County may seek legal and/or equitable relief to enforce the provisions of this section. 

The Transition Period shall be no longer than the reasonable period required to ensure that Cable 
Service will be available to Subscribers, and shall be no longer than thirty-six (36) months, unless 
extended by the Board for good cause. During the Transition Period, a Franchisee will continue to 
be obligated to comply with the terms and conditions of its Franchise, this chapter, and applicable 
laws and regulations. 

If  a  Franchisee  abandons  its  System  during  the  Franchise  term,  or  fails  to  operate  its  System  in 
accordance with the terms of its Franchise during any Transition Period, the County, at its option, 
may  (i)  operate  the  System,  (ii)  designate  another  entity  to  operate  the  System  temporarily  until 
the Franchisee restores service under conditions acceptable to the County or until the Franchise is 
revoked  and  a  new  Franchisee  designated  by  the  Board  is  providing  service,  or  (iii)  obtain  an 
injunction requiring the Franchisee to continue operations. If the County is required to operate or 
designate another entity to operate the Cable System, the Franchisee shall promptly reimburse the 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-16 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  
 
  

 
  

County  or  its  designee  for  all  reasonable  costs  and  damages  incurred  that  are  in  excess  of  the 
revenues from the Cable System. 

7. 

The County shall be entitled to injunctive relief under the preceding paragraph if: 

a. 

b. 

The  Franchisee  fails  to  provide  Cable  Service  in  accordance  with  its  Franchise  over  a 
substantial portion of the Franchise Area for ninety-six (96) consecutive hours, unless the 
County authorizes a longer interruption of service or the failure is due to force majeure, 
as characterized in a Franchise ; or 

The  Franchisee,  for  any  period,  willfully,  and  without  cause  refuses  to  provide  Cable 
Service in accordance with its Franchise over a substantial portion of the Franchise Area.  

A.  

(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-7. Design and Construction. 
 
System  construction  schedule.  Every  Certificate  shall  specify  the  construction  schedule  that  will 
 
apply to any required construction, upgrade, or rebuild of the  Cable System. The schedule shall provide for prompt 
completion  of  the  construction,  upgrade  or  rebuild,  considering  the  amount  and  type  of  work  required,  and  shall 
show areas of the County that will be affected. 
 
 
 
  

Construction procedures. 

B.  

1. 

The construction, operation and repair of Cable Systems are subject to, and shall be performed in 
strict  compliance  with,  all  federal,  State  and  County  laws,  ordinances,  rules  and  regulations, 
policies,  and  practices.  In  addition,  the  construction,  operation  and  repair  of  Systems  shall  be 
performed  in  a  manner  consistent  with  high  industry  standards.  Persons  engaged  in  the 
construction,  operation  or  repair  of  Cable  Systems  shall  exercise  reasonable  care  in  the 
performance  of  all  their  activities,  and  use  commonly  accepted  methods  and  devices  for 
preventing failures and accidents that are likely to cause damage, injury, or nuisance to the public 
or to property. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

Every System, and all parts thereof, shall be subject to the right of periodic inspection and testing 
by the County to determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter, a Certificate, and other 
applicable  law.  The  County  shall  have  the  right,  upon  request,  to  be  notified  and  to  be  present 
when  a  System  is  tested  by  a  Franchisee.  Each  Franchisee  shall  respond  to  requests  for 
information regarding its System and its plans for the System as the County may from time to time 
issue, including requests for information regarding its plans for construction, operation, and repair, 
and the purposes for which the plant is being constructed, operated or repaired. 

Construction, operation or repair of a Cable System shall not commence until written permits have 
been  properly  filed  for  and  obtained  from  the  proper  County  officials  and  required  permit  and 
associated  fees  are  paid.  In  any  permit  so  issued,  the  County  may  impose,  as  a  condition  of  the 
granting of the permit, such conditions and regulations as may be necessary to the management of 
the  Public  Rights-of-Way,  including,  by  way  of  example  and  not  limitation,  conditions  and 
regulations for the purpose of protecting any structures in the Public Rights-of-Way, for the proper 
restoration of such Public Rights-of-Way and structures, and for the protection of the County, the 
public and the continuity of pedestrian and vehicular traffic. A Franchisee may immediately begin 
emergency  repairs  without  a  written  permit;  provided  that  the  Franchisee  notifies  the  County  of 
such repairs no later than the next business day following the commencement of the repair work, 
and  then  applies  for  all  necessary  permits  in  accordance  with  applicable  procedures.  The  notice 
provided to the County shall clearly identify the location of the emergency work, and explain why 
such work was necessary. 

4. 

Cable  System  operators  shall  follow  County  requirements  for  placement  of  facilities  in  Public 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-17 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

Rights-of-Way, including the specific location of facilities in the Public Rights-of-Way, and shall 
in  any  event  install  facilities  in  a  manner  that  minimizes  interference  with  the  use  of  the  Public 
Rights-of-Way  by  others,  including  others  that  may  be  installing  Cable  Systems,  other 
communications  facilities,  or  utilities.  With  respect  to  a  particular  construction,  repair  or 
maintenance project, the County may establish conditions on the time, place, and manner in which 
work  is  done;  may  deny  access  if  the  operator  is  not  willing  to  comply  with  the  County's 
requirements;  may  remove  any  facility  that  is  not  installed  in  compliance  with  the  requirements 
established by the County, or which is installed without prior County approval of the time, place, 
or  manner  of  installation,  and  charge  the  operator  for  all  the  costs  associated  with  removal;  and 
may  require  a  Person  using  the  Public  Rights-of-Way  to  cooperate  with  others  to  minimize 
adverse impacts on the Public Rights-of-Way through joint trenching and other arrangements. The 
County shall have the right to inspect all facilities being placed underground. A  Franchisee shall 
provide  notice  to  the  appropriate  County  official  that  construction  of  underground  facilities  has 
been  completed  at  least  forty-eight  (48)  hours  before  they  are  covered.  It  shall  be  the  operator's 
responsibility to comply with the terms of any applicable permit. The  County shall have the right 
to  require  an  operator  to  reopen  a  trench  or  other  underground  installation  if  any  facilities  are 
covered before the County has inspected them. 

Upon order of the  Administrator, all work  which does not comply  with the permit, the approved 
plans  or  specifications  for  the  work,  or  the  requirements  of  this  chapter,  the  Franchise,  or  other 
applicable law, shall be promptly removed by the Franchisee at its expense. 

Every  Franchisee  shall  make  available  to  other  Franchisees,  at  a  reasonable,  non-discriminatory 
rental  rate,  any  conduit  installed  after  the  effective  date  of  this  chapter  for  which  the  Franchisee 
has no present or reasonably foreseeable use. Any conduit provided to other Franchisees pursuant 
to this provision may be reclaimed upon sixty (60) days' notice that the  Franchisee has a need for 
the conduit. In a Certificate, the County may require as a condition of issuing any Public Right-of-
Way permit for underground conduit, the installation of which requires excavation of or along any 
traveled  way,  that  the  Franchisee  emplace  conduit,  in  excess  of  its  present  and  reasonably 
foreseeable  requirements,  for  the  purpose  of  accommodating  other  franchisees  for  a  reasonable 
charge. 

Each Franchisee that places facilities underground shall be a member of the One Call Notification 
System (otherwise known as "Miss Utility") and shall field mark the locations of its underground 
facilities upon request. Throughout the term of a  Franchise, a Franchisee shall locate its facilities 
for the County at no charge to the County. 

To  the  extent  possible,  a  Franchisee  shall  use  existing  poles  and  conduit  in  installing  its  Cable 
System.  In  no  case  may  additional  poles  or  other  structures  be  installed  in  the  Public  Rights-of-
Way  or  on  any  public  property  without  the  prior  permission  of  the  County.  Any  Person  who  is 
permitted to install poles shall lease capacity on those poles to others, at a rate not higher than the 
rate that would be permitted if 47 U.S.C. § 224 applied. 

No  tree  trimming  shall  be  performed  without  the  permission  of  the  County  and  other  affected 
authorities.  Any  tree  trimming  shall  be  performed  in  strict  accordance  with  this  Code  and  all 
County rules, regulations, policies and procedures. 

At  the  expiration  of  the  term  for  which  a  Franchise  is  granted,  or  upon  the  expiration  of  any 
renewal  or  extension  period  which  may  be  granted,  or  upon  the  termination  or  revocation  of  a 
Certificate, the County will have the right to require a Franchisee, at its sole expense: (i) to remove 
all  portions  of  its  Cable  System  from  all  Public  Rights-of-Way  within  the  County;  and  (ii)  to 
restore  affected  sites  to  their  original  condition.  Should  a  Franchisee  fail,  refuse,  or  neglect  to 
comply  with  the  County's  directive,  all  portions  of  the  Franchisee's  Cable  System,  or  any  part 
thereof,  may  be  removed,  altered  or  relocated  by  the  County  at  the  cost  of  the  Franchisee.  The 
County  will  not be liable to a  Franchisee  for damages resulting from such removal, alteration or 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-18 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

relocation. 

11. 

The County shall have  the right to install and  maintain,  free of charge upon any poles  or in any 
conduit  or  duct  owned  by  a  Franchisee,  any  wire  and  pole  fixtures  that  do  not  unreasonably 
interfere  with  Cable  System  operations  of  a  Franchisee.  A  Franchisee  shall  notify  the  County 
when  the  Franchisee  enters  into  an  agreement  for  the  use  of  its  poles,  ducts  and  conduits.  Such 
notice  shall  specify  the  name,  telephone  number  and  address  of  the  party  that  will  be  using  the 
Franchisee's  poles,  ducts  and  conduits.  Copies  of  agreements  for  the  use  of  a  Franchisee's 
conduits, ducts or poles in the Public Rights-of-Way or on other public property shall be available 
for review by the County upon request. A Franchisee shall not enter into such an agreement with a 
third  party  unless  that  person  has  represented  that  it  has  the  requisite  authority  to  occupy  or 
otherwise use the affected Public Rights-of-Way or public property. 

12. 

Work by or on behalf of a Franchisee concerning installation, replacement or removal of a  Cable 
System, or any part thereof, shall be publicized by the Franchisee, at its cost, in the manner and at 
the times the Administrator periodically may direct. 

C.  

Use of public and private property. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Should  the  grades  or  lines  of  the  Public  Rights-of-Way  that  a  Franchisee  is  authorized  by  a 
Franchise to use and occupy be changed at any time during the term of a Franchise, the Franchisee 
shall, if necessary, as determined by the County, relocate or change its System, at its own cost and 
expense, so as to conform with the new grades or lines. 

Any alteration to any water and sewage mains or lines, to any drainage system or to any structures 
in  the  Public  Rights-of-Way,  on  public  property,  or  on  private  property,  which  alteration  is 
required on account of the presence of a  Franchisee's  System in the  Public Rights-of-Way or on 
such  public  property  or  private  property,  shall  be  made  at  the  sole  cost  and  expense  of  the 
Franchisee. During any work of constructing, operating or maintaining of a  System, a Franchisee 
shall protect all existing structures belonging to the County and any other Person. The County may 
prescribe  the  manner  in  which  a  Franchisee  shall  perform  any  such  work  performed  within  the 
Public Rights-of-Way, on public property, or on private property. 

Unless otherwise specified in a Franchise, all System facilities shall be constructed, installed, and 
located  in  accordance  with  all  applicable  laws,  ordinances,  regulations  and  policies,  and  in 
accordance with the following terms and conditions: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

Consistent  with  §  41.2-7.B.6,  System  facilities  shall  be  installed  within  an  existing 
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists within such utility facility. 

Poles, underground conduits, ducts or other wireholding structures shall not be installed 
in the Public Rights-of-Way or on other County property without the written permission 
of the County, or on the property of any third party without the written permission of the 
owner, except when a Franchisee has a legal right to place facilities on private property 
without permission of the owner. 

Whenever any existing telephone, electric utility, Cable System, or other similar facilities 
are  located  underground  within  a  certain  portion  of  the  Public  Rights-of-Way,  a  Person 
installing another Cable System also shall place its facilities in that portion of the Public 
Rights-of-Way underground. 

Whenever  all  existing  telephone,  electric  utility,  or  communications  facilities  are  to  be 
located or relocated underground within a portion of the  Public Rights-of-Way specified 
by  the  County,  Franchisees  that  then  occupy  that  portion  of  the  Public  Rights-of-Way 
shall  concurrently  relocate  their  respective  facilities  underground,  at  their  own  expense, 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-19 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

and  shall  not  assess  their  Subscribers  any  direct  charges  for  the  costs  of  required 
construction  outside  the  approved  rate  structure.  The  expenses  incurred  by  a  franchisee 
pursuant  to  this  provision  may  be  considered  external  costs  under  the  FCC's  rate 
regulation rules. 

4. 

All Public Rights-of-Way, public property, or private property that is disturbed or damaged during 
the construction, operation or repair of a Cable System shall be promptly repaired, at its own cost 
and  expense,  by  the  franchisee  that  disturbed  or  damaged  the  Public  Rights-of-Way,  public 
property or private property. 

D.  

Interference with public projects; relocation of facilities. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Nothing in this chapter or any Certificate shall be in preference to, or in hindrance of, the right of 
the  County,  the  Board  or  any  board,  authority,  commission  or  public  service  corporation  to 
perform  or  carry  on  any  public  works  or  public  improvements  of  any  description.  Should  a 
Franchisee's  System  in  any  way  interfere  with  the  construction,  maintenance  or  repair  of  any 
public works or public improvements, the Franchisee shall, at its sole cost and expense, protect or 
relocate its System, or part thereof, as directed by the County, the Board, the Administrator or any 
County official, board, authority, or commission. 

If  any  Person  that  is  authorized  to  place  facilities  in  the  Public  Rights-of-Way  requests  a 
Franchisee  to  protect,  support,  temporarily  disconnect,  remove,  or  relocate  its  facilities  to 
accommodate  the  construction,  operation,  or  repair  of  the  facilities  of  such  other  Person,  the 
Franchisee shall, after thirty (30) days' advance written notice, take action to effect the necessary 
changes  requested.  If  the  requested  action  is  necessary  to  address  an  emergency  that,  in  the 
opinion of the County, might affect the public health, safety or welfare, then the  Franchisee shall 
take  immediate  action  upon  receipt  of  notice  of  the  request  to  complete  the  requested  action. 
Unless the matter is governed by a valid contract, a local ordinance, regulation or policy, or a State 
or federal law or regulation,  or in other cases  where the  System  that is being requested to  move 
was not properly installed, the reasonable cost of the same shall be borne by the party requesting 
the  protection,  support,  temporary  disconnection,  removal,  or  relocation  and  performed  at  no 
charge to the County. 

A Franchisee shall, at the request of any Person holding a valid permit issued by a governmental 
authority,  temporarily  raise  or  lower  its  wires  to  permit  the  temporary  or  permanent  moving  of 
buildings,  structures,  equipment  of  whatever  nature,  or  other  objects.  With  the  exception  of  the 
County,  the expense of such temporary removal or raising  or lowering of  wires  shall be  paid by 
the person requesting the same. A  Franchisee  shall be  given not  less than  forty-eight (48) hours' 
advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes. 

E.  

 
Permits. A Franchisee shall be required to obtain permits for the installation of its facilities in the 
 
Public  Rights-of-Way,  as  required  by  any  applicable  provision  of  the  County  Code.  A  Franchisee  shall  also  be 
required  to  obtain  any  other  applicable  permits  that  may  be  required  by  the  County  or  any  other  entity  having 
jurisdiction.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-8. Channels and Facilities for Public, Educational and Governmental Use, Leased Access. 
 
 
profit community access corporation, to perform any or all of the following functions: 
 
  
 
  

Management  of  channels.  The  Board  may  designate  one  (1)  or  more  entities,  including  a  non-

To manage any necessary scheduling or allocation of capacity on the institutional network; and/or 

On  the  County's  behalf,  to  program  any  public,  educational  or  governmental  Access  Channel. 
Until  such  entities  have  been  designated,  the  Administrator  shall  be  responsible  for  these 

A.  

1. 

2. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-20 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

functions. 

B.  

 
Public  access  programming  rules.  For  any  Public  Access  Channel,  the  community  access 
 
corporation managing such Channel shall prohibit the presentation of: any advertising material designed to promote 
the sale of commercial products or services (including advertising by or on behalf of candidates for public office); 
and  lottery  information,  and  shall  establish  rules  to  this  effect  as  well  as  rules  requiring  first-come, 
nondiscriminatory access, and rules permitting the public inspection of the names and addresses of all persons and 
groups requesting access time. Records of such requests shall be retained by the entity  managing the Public Access 
Channel for a period of two (2) years. 
 
 
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-9. Consumer Protection. 
 
 
 
  

Leased access. A Franchisee shall provide Leased Access Channels as required by federal law.  

This  §  41.2-9  sets  forth  customer  service  standards  that  a  Franchisee  shall  satisfy.  In  addition,  a 
Franchisee  shall  at  all  times  satisfy  any  additional  or  stricter  requirements  established  by  a 
Certificate  or  other  applicable  federal,  State,  or  local  law  or  regulation,  as  the  same  may  be 
amended from time to time, including, without limitation, consumer protection laws. 

General provisions. 

A.  

C.  

1. 

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

Nothing  in  this  chapter  shall  be  construed  to  prevent  or  prohibit  the  Board  from  waiving  the 
requirements established in this § 41.2-9, where such waiver is in the best interests of the County 
and its residents. 

Nothing  in  this  chapter  in  any  way  relieves  a  Franchisee  of  its  obligation  to  comply  with  other 
applicable consumer protection laws and its Certificate. 

B.  

Telephone and office availability. 

1. 

2. 

Each Franchisee shall maintain an office at a convenient location in the County that shall be open 
at  least  during  Normal  Business  Hours  to  allow  Subscribers  to  request  service,  pay  bills,  and 
conduct other business. Each Franchisee shall perform service calls, installations, and disconnects 
during  at  least  the  hours  8:00  a.m.  to  8:00  p.m.  Monday  through  Saturday,  provided  that  a 
Franchisee shall respond to System Outages twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week. 
Each Franchisee shall establish a publicly listed, local toll free telephone number. The phone shall 
be answered by customer service representatives at least  Monday through Saturday, 8:00 a.m. to 
8:00  p.m.,  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  requests  for  service,  inquiries,  and  complaints  from 
Subscribers;  after  those  hours,  a  Franchisee  shall  arrange  for  the  phone  to  be  answered  so  that 
customers can register complaints and report service problems on a twenty-four (24) hour per day, 
seven  (7)  day  per  week  basis,  and  so  that  the  Franchisee  can  respond  to  Service  Outages  as 
required herein. 

Telephone answering time shall not exceed thirty (30) seconds, and the time to transfer the call to 
a customer service representative (including  hold time) shall not exceed an additional thirty (30) 
seconds.  This  standard  shall  be  met  ninety-five  percent  (95%)  of  the  time,  measured  quarterly. 
Under Normal Operating Conditions a Subscriber will receive a busy signal less than three percent 
(3%)  of  the  time.  When  the  business  office  is  closed,  an  answering  service  capable  of  receiving 
and  recording  service  complaints  and  inquiries  shall  be  employed.  The  after-hours  answering 
service shall comply with the same telephone answer time standard set forth in this Section. Thirty 
(30) days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter,  a  Franchisee  shall  supply  the  County  statistical 
data to verify it has met the standards set forth herein. 

3. 

A  Franchisee  shall  hire  sufficient  staff  so  that  it  can  adequately  respond  to  Customer  inquiries, 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-21 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  
 
  

complaints,  and  requests  for  service  in  its  office,  over  the  telephone,  and  at  the  Subscriber's 
residence. 

C.  

Scheduling work. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

All  appointments  for  service,  installation,  or  disconnection  shall  be  specified  by  date.  Each 
Franchisee shall specify a specific time at which the work shall be done, or offer a choice of time 
blocks,  which  shall  not  exceed  four  (4)  hours  in  length.  If  at  any  time  an  installer  or  technician 
believes it impossible to make a scheduled appointment time, an attempt to contact the Customer 
will  be  made  prior  to  the  time  of  appointment  and  the  appointment  scheduled  at  a  specific  time 
between  8:00  a.m.  and  8:00  p.m.,  seven  (7)  days  a  week,  that  is  convenient  to  the  Customer,  if 
rescheduling is necessary. It is a Franchisee's burden to prove it met an appointment. 

With  regard  to  mobility-limited  Customers,  upon  a  Subscriber's  request,  each  Franchisee  shall 
arrange  for  pickup  and/or  replacement  of  Converters  or  other  Franchisee  equipment  at  the 
Subscriber's  address  or  by  a  satisfactory  equivalent  (such  as  the  provision  of  a  postage-prepaid 
mailer). 

Requests for service, repair, and maintenance shall be acknowledged by a trained customer service 
representative  within  twenty-four  (24)  hours,  or  prior  to  the  end  of  the  next  business  day, 
whichever  is  earlier.  A  Franchisee  shall  acknowledge  all  other  inquiries  (including  billing 
inquiries) within five (5) business days of the inquiry or complaint. 

Repairs and maintenance for outages or Service Interruptions and other repairs not requiring work 
within  a  Subscriber's  premises  shall  be  completed  within  twenty-four  (24)  hours  of  the  time  the 
Subscriber  reports  a  problem.  Work  on  all  other  requests  for  service  shall  be  begun  by  the  next 
business day after notification of the problem or at a later time mutually agreeable to a Franchisee 
and a Subscriber. A Franchisee shall exercise its best efforts to complete such work  within three 
(3) days from the date of the initial request, except installation requests, provided that a Franchisee 
shall complete the  work in the shortest time possible  where, for reasons beyond the  Franchisee's 
control, the  work could not be completed in those time periods even with the exercise of all due 
diligence; the failure of a  Franchisee to hire sufficient staff or to properly train its staff shall not 
justify a Franchisee's failure to comply with this provision. 

A Franchisee shall not cancel a service or installation appointment with a Customer after the close 
of business on the business day preceding the appointment. 

The standards of §§ 41.2-9.C.4 and 41.2-9.C.5 shall be met at least ninety-five percent (95%) of 
the time, measured on a quarterly basis. 

The  installation  time  standard  in  §  41.2-6.A.2,  and  below  shall  be  met  no  less  than  ninety-five 
percent (95%) of the time,  measured on a quarterly basis:  requests  for additional outlets, service 
upgrades or other connections (i.e., DMX, VCR, A/B Switch) separate from an initial installation 
shall be performed within seven (7) business days after an order has been placed. 

D.  

Notice to subscribers. 

1. 

A  Franchisee  shall  provide  each  Subscriber  at  the  time  Cable  Service  is  installed,  and  at  least 
every twelve (12) months thereafter, the following materials: 

a. 

b. 

Instructions on how to use the Cable Service; 

Billing  and  complaint  procedures,  and  written  instructions  for  placing  a  service  call, 
filing a complaint, or requesting an adjustment (including when a Subscriber is entitled to 
refunds for outages and how to obtain them); 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-22 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

c. 

d. 

e. 

f. 

A  notice  showing  the  telephone  number  of  the  County  office  responsible  for  receiving 
Customer complaints; 

A  schedule  of  rates  and  charges,  channel  positions,  and  a  description  of  products  and 
services offered; 

Prices  and  options  for  programming  services  and  conditions  of  subscription  to 
programming and other services; and 

A description of the Franchisee's installation and service maintenance policies, delinquent 
Subscriber disconnect and reconnect procedures, and any other of its policies  applicable 
to its Subscribers. 

Copies of all Subscriber notices and publications shall be provided to the County at least ten (10) 
days  before  they  are  scheduled  to  be  published  or  otherwise  generated.  Except  as  applicable 
federal, State and local rate regulations may provide to the contrary, a Franchisee shall provide the 
Administrator  and  all  Subscribers  with  at  least  thirty  (30)  days'  prior  notice  of  any  significant 
changes  in  the  information  required  to  be  provided  by  this  §  41.2-9.D.  Such  notice  shall  be  in 
writing and by announcement on the System. 

All  Franchisee  promotional  materials,  announcements,  and  advertising  of  Cable  Service  to 
Subscribers and the general public, where price information is listed in any manner, shall clearly 
and accurately disclose price terms. In the case of pay-per-view or pay-per-event programming, all 
promotional materials shall clearly and accurately disclose price terms and in the case of telephone 
orders,  a  Franchisee  shall  take  appropriate  steps  to  ensure  that  customer  service  representatives 
clearly and accurately disclose price terms to potential Customers in advance of taking the order. 

Each Franchisee shall maintain a public file containing all notices provided to  Subscribers under 
these  customer  service  standards,  as  well  as  all  promotional  offers  made  to  Subscribers.  The 
notices and offers shall be kept in the file for at least one (1) year from the date of such notice or 
promotional offer. 

Upon request, a Franchisee shall work with  Subscribers to provide the notices required by this  § 
41.2-9.D in formats accessible to disabled persons. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

E.  

Interruptions of service. 

1. 

2. 

A  Franchisee  shall  schedule  maintenance  on  its  Cable  System  at  times  that  will  minimize  the 
likelihood  of  interruptions  in  service  to  Subscribers.  A  Franchisee  may  intentionally  interrupt 
service on the Cable System only for good cause and for the shortest time possible and, except in 
emergency situations, only after a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours' prior notice to Subscribers, 
the  Administrator  and  Public  Educational  and  Governmental  Access  Channel  operators  of  the 
anticipated  Service  Interruptions;  provided,  however,  that  planned  maintenance  that  does  not 
require  more  than  two  (2)  hours'  interruption  of  service  that  occurs  between  the  hours  of  12:00 
midnight and 6:00 a.m., shall not require such notice to Subscribers, but shall require notice to the 
County  no  less  than  twenty-four  (24)  hours  prior  to  the  anticipated  Service  Interruption.  Brief 
interruptions  of  service  of  less  than  five  (5)  minutes  which  are  necessary  to  conduct  planned 
maintenance  shall  not  require  notice  to  Subscribers,  the  County,  or  Public,  Educational  and 
Governmental Access Channel operators. 

For any period in which a Subscriber suffers a Service Interruption for more than eight (8) hours 
in any twenty-four (24) hour period, other than a planned interruption pursuant to  § 41.2-9.E.1, a 
Franchisee shall credit against the Subscriber's next bill an amount equal to one-thirtieth (1/30) of 
the  monthly  charge  for  any  service  or  service  tier  affected,  and  shall  pay  a  direct  refund  to  any 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-23 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  

Subscriber  who  terminates  service  before  all  credits  owed  are  applied.  The  charge  for  any  per-
program  selection  that  is  materially  affected  by  the  outage  shall  also  be  refunded  or  credited.  A 
Franchisee shall be responsible for making such refunds or credits upon receipt of a complaint of a 
Service  Interruption  from  a  Subscriber,  unless  the  Franchisee  can  show  that  the  Service 
Interruption  was insufficient in length or character to require a credit, or that the  Subscriber was 
responsible for the Service Interruption. 

Billing. 

A Franchisee's first billing statement after a new installation or service change shall be prorated as 
appropriate and shall reflect any security deposit. 

A  Franchisee's  billing  statement  shall  be  clear,  concise  and  understandable,  shall  itemize  each 
category  of  service  and  equipment  provided  to  the  subscriber  and  must  state  clearly  the  charge 
therefor. 

A  Franchisee's  billing  statement  shall  show  a  specific  payment  due  date  not  earlier  than  twenty 
(20) days after the date the statement is mailed. Any balance not received by the due date may be 
assessed a late fee not exceeding a Franchisee's reasonable costs of collection or any other amount 
permitted  by  State  law.  The  late  fee  shall  appear  on  the  following  month's  billing  statement. 
Subscribers shall not be charged a late fee or otherwise penalized for any failure by a  Franchisee, 
including failure to timely or correctly bill a Subscriber, or failure to properly credit a Subscriber 
for a payment timely made. 

A  Franchisee  shall  notify  a  Subscriber  that  he  or  she  can  remit  payment  in  person  at  the 
Franchisee's office in the County and inform the Subscriber of the address of that office. 

A Franchisee shall provide an initial response or acknowledgment to all written billing complaints 
from  Subscribers  within  five  (5)  days  of  receipt  of  the  complaint  and  a  final  written  response 
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the complaint. 

Refund  checks  to  Subscribers  shall  be  issued  no  later  than  the  Subscriber's  next  billing  cycle 
following resolution of the refund request, or thirty (30) days, whichever is later. 

Credits for Cable Service shall be issued no later than the Subscriber's next billing cycle after the 
determination that the credit is warranted. 

If  a  Subscriber  terminates  service  before  the  end  of  a  prepaid  period,  a  pro  rata  portion  of  any 
prepaid service fee, using the actual number of days in the month as a basis, shall be refunded to 
the Subscriber. 

F.  

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

G.  

Disconnection/downgrades. 

1. 

2. 

A Subscriber may terminate service at any time. 

A  Franchisee  shall  promptly  disconnect  from  its  System  or  downgrade  any  Subscriber  who  so 
requests.  No  period  of  notice  prior  to  voluntary  termination  or  downgrade  of  service  may  be 
required  of  Subscribers  by  any  Franchisee.  No  charge  may  be  imposed  for  any  voluntary 
disconnection or downgrade that does not require a service call, except to the extent that federal 
law specifically provides that the Franchisee shall be permitted to so charge a Subscriber. So long 
as a Subscriber returns any equipment necessary to receive a service within five (5) business days 
of  the  disconnection,  no  charge  may  be  imposed  by  any  Franchisee  for  any  Cable  Service 
delivered  after  the  date  of  the  disconnect  request.  However,  if  a  Subscriber  does  not  return,  or 
permit a Franchisee to retrieve, such equipment within five (5) business days after disconnection, a 
Franchisee  may  charge  a  Subscriber  for  any  Cable  Service  delivered  until  the  equipment  is 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-24 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

returned. 

A Subscriber may be asked, but not required, to disconnect a Franchisee's equipment and return it 
to the business office. 

Any security deposit and/or other funds due a  Subscriber that disconnects or downgrades service 
shall be returned to the Subscriber within thirty (30) days or in the next billing cycle, whichever is 
later, from the date the disconnection or the downgrade was requested, except in cases where the 
Subscriber does not permit a Franchisee to recover its equipment, in which case the amounts owed 
shall be paid to Subscribers within thirty (30) days of the date the equipment was recovered, or in 
the next billing cycle, whichever is later. 

If  a  Subscriber  fails  to  pay  a  monthly  Subscriber  fee  or  other  fee  or  charge,  a  Franchisee  may 
disconnect the  Subscriber's service;  however, such disconnection shall not be effected  until after 
forty-five (45) days from the due date of the monthly Subscriber fee or other charge, plus at least 
ten  (10)  days  advance  written  notice  to  the  Subscriber  in  question  of  intent  to  disconnect,  given 
after the forty-five (45) days have elapsed. If the Subscriber pays all amounts due, including late 
charges, before the date scheduled for disconnection, the Franchisee shall not disconnect service. 
After  disconnection,  upon  payment  by  the  Subscriber  in  full  of  all  proper  fees  or  charges, 
including  the  payment  of  a  reconnection  charge,  if  any,  the  Franchisee  shall  promptly  reinstate 
service. 

A  Franchisee  may  immediately  disconnect  a  Subscriber  if  (i)  the  Subscriber  is  damaging  or 
destroying the Franchisee's Cable System or equipment; or (ii) the Subscriber is not authorized to 
receive  Cable  Service,  or  is  facilitating,  aiding  or  abetting  the  unauthorized  reception  of  Cable 
Service  by  others.  A  Franchisee  may  pursue  criminal  or  civil  action  against  said  Subscriber  as 
appropriate.  After  disconnection,  a  Franchisee  shall  restore  service  if  the  Subscriber  provides 
adequate assurances, including  monetary or legal assurances, that it  has ceased the practices that 
led  to  disconnection,  and  paid  all  proper  fees  and  charges,  including  any  reconnect  fees  and 
amounts owed the Franchisee for damage to its Cable System or equipment. 

A  Franchisee  may  disconnect  a  Subscriber  without  notice  where  signal  leakage  is  detected 
originating from the Subscriber's premises in excess of federal limits, provided that the Franchisee 
shall  immediately  notify  the  Subscriber  of  the  problem  and,  once  the  problem  is  corrected, 
reconnect the Subscriber without charge. 

With respect to home  wiring, a  Franchisee  shall comply  with 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.800-806 (Part 76, 
Subpart M of the FCC's rules), as amended from time to time, and any other applicable rules or 
requirements, or amendments thereto. 

H.  

 
Deposits.  A  Franchisee  may  require  a  reasonable,  non-discriminatory  deposit  on  equipment 
 
provided to Subscribers, in addition to any allowable monthly fees. All deposits shall be returned to a Subscriber as 
soon  as  the  Subscriber's  account  has  not  been  in  arrears  for  a  period  of  six  (6)  consecutive  months,  or  when  the 
Subscriber returns all equipment in a condition as good as that in which it was received (excepting reasonable wear 
and tear) at time of disconnection of reception of service, whichever is sooner. 
 
 
 
  

Each Franchisee shall establish a clear procedure for resolving complaints filed by any interested 
party, providing that complaints may be made orally or in writing, at the complainant's option, and 
identifying a person responsible for handling complaints that are not already being  handled by a 
customer service representative. 

Complaint procedures. 

I.  

1. 

 
  

2. 

Each Franchisee shall provide an initial response to a complaint within five (5) days of its receipt 
and a final written response within thirty (30) days after the complaint is made. The final written 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-25 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

response  shall  include  a  notice  stating  that,  if  the  complaint  has  not  been  resolved  to  the 
complainant's satisfaction, the matter may be referred to the Administrator.  

J.  

K.  

 
Parental control option. A Franchisee shall make available to any  Subscribers, upon request, the 
 
option of blocking the video and audio portion of any channel or channels of programming entering a  Subscriber's 
home. This control option shall be provided at no charge, except to the extent that federal law specifically provides 
that a franchisee shall be permitted to so charge a Subscriber, provided that the Franchisee may require a reasonable 
deposit for the use of any customer premises device. The control option described herein shall be made available to 
all Subscribers requesting it when any Cable Service is provided, or within a reasonable time thereafter. 
 
Enforcement. Within forty-five (45) days of the end of each calendar quarter during the term of a 
 
Franchise, or any extension(s) thereof, a Franchisee shall submit a quarterly written report to the County, in a form 
reasonably satisfactory to the County, that shows whether the Franchisee is meeting all applicable customer service 
standards,  including,  but  not  limited  to:  telephone  answering  and  transfer  time  requirements;  the  minimum  busy 
signal percentage; appointment  scheduling and response requirements;  Subscriber  notice and billing requirements; 
and disconnection procedures. A Franchisee shall keep such records as are reasonably required to enable the County 
to  determine  whether  the  Franchisee  is  complying  with  all  such  customer  service  standards,  and  shall  maintain 
adequate procedures to demonstrate such compliance. 
 
 
 
  

Exclusive contracts and anticompetitive acts prohibited. 

A  Franchisee  may  not  require  a  Subscriber  or  a  building  owner  or  manager  to  enter  into  an 
exclusive  contract  as  a  condition  of  providing  or  continuing  Cable  Service.  However,  nothing 
herein  prevents  a  Franchisee  from  entering  into  an  otherwise  lawful,  mutually  desired  exclusive 
arrangement  with  a  building  owner  or  manager  of  a  multiple  dwelling  unit  or  commercial 
Subscriber. 

L.  

1. 

 
  

2. 

No  Franchisee  shall  engage  in  acts  prohibited  by  federal  or  State  law  that  have  the  purpose  or 
effect  of  limiting  competition  for  the  provision  of  Cable  Service  or  services  similar  to  Cable 
Service in the County.  

(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-10. Rate Regulation. 
 
 
 
  
 
  

A.  

1. 

2. 

Scope and applicability. 

General authority. The County may regulate all rates and charges to the extent permitted by law. 

Applicability to franchisees.  The procedures in this  chapter govern the regulation of rates  within 
the County for any Franchisee subject to rate regulation by the County pursuant to applicable law. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

Consistency  with  FCC  regulations.  The  provisions  set  forth  herein  are  intended  to  be  consistent 
with  all  FCC  regulations  governing  the  regulation  of  basic  service  rates  and  equipment.  The 
county  will  regulate  and  interpret  these  provisions  so  that  they  are  consistent  with  FCC 
regulations, as if those regulations were set forth in full herein. 

Extension of deadlines. For good cause, the  Administrator  may extend any deadline for  filing or 
response, except where such an extension would violate FCC regulations. 

Effect of delay or failure to enforce. No delay or failure to enforce any provision in this § 41.2-10 
shall operate against the County as an estoppel or waiver. 

Definitions. For purposes of  this  § 41.2-10, the term "basic service" or "basic cable service" has 
the  same  meaning  as  the  term  "basic  service"  as  defined  in  47  C.F.R.  §  76.901,  and  the  term 
"equipment" refers to all equipment and services subject to regulation under 47 C.F.R. § 76.923. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-26 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
 
 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

B.  

Rate filings. 

1. 

Initial  rate  filings.  A  Franchisee  that  is  notified  that  its  basic  service  and  equipment  rates  are 
subject  to  regulation  shall  file  a  submission  ("initial  rate  filing")  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  the 
notification, except to the extent otherwise specifically provided by governing law. The initial rate 
filing  shall  justify  the  Franchisee's  basic  service  and  equipment  rates  in  accordance  with  FCC 
rules.  All  rates,  for  all  customer  classifications,  shall  be  justified,  except  to  the  extent  that  such 
rates are specifically exempted from regulation by FCC regulations or other governing law. 

2. 

Subsequent rate filings. 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

Once a Franchisee has been notified by the County that its rates are subject to regulation, 
it may not thereafter increase its rates for basic service or equipment without making any 
rate filings required by applicable law and obtaining the prior approval of the  County, in 
accordance with this chapter. This requirement applies in all cases, including to increases 
in  rates  announced  prior  to  the  date  the  operator  was  notified  its  rates  were  subject  to 
regulation  where the  increases  were  not implemented prior to the date of  notice, except 
insofar  as  governing  law  specifically  permits  a  Franchisee  to  raise  rates  without  prior 
approval. 

A  Franchisee  shall  submit  a  rate  filing  at  any  other  time  such  a  filing  is  required  under 
FCC rules, or by the County in accordance with such rules. 

For purposes of this § 41.2-10.B, a "rate increase" occurs when there is either an increase 
in  rates,  a  new  basic  service  or  equipment  rate,  or  a  reduction  in  program  or  customer 
services without a corresponding decrease in rates. 

Rate filings proposing and supporting rate increases shall be filed with the  Administrator 
for  review  at  least  thirty  (30)  days  in  advance  of  the  proposed  effective  date  of  the 
increase. This requirement does not alter or eliminate any other notice requirement. 

A  Franchisee  shall  provide  at  least  thirty  (30)  days  prior  written  notice  (or  such  longer 
period as may be specified in FCC regulations) to subscribers and to the Administrator of 
any  proposed  changes  in  rates,  programming  services,  or  channel  positions,  whether  or 
not  the  Franchisee  believes  the  affected  rates  are  subject  to  regulation,  except  to  the 
extent such notice requirement is specifically waived by governing law. 

3. 

Rate filings: Where and how made. 

a. 

b. 

Every rate filing shall be submitted by the Franchisee to the Administrator. A rate filing 
shall be considered filed for review on the date the rate filing and all required copies are 
received by the Administrator. Five (5) copies of each rate filing (including all supporting 
materials) shall be submitted. 

Information  that  the  operator  claims  is  proprietary  under  §  41.2-10.F  herein  shall  be 
clearly identified and segregated from the remainder of the filing and clearly marked so 
that  the  County  may  determine  where  and  how  the  proprietary  information  was  used  to 
determine rates. 

4. 

Rate filings: contents. 

a. 

Subject to any FCC regulations governing the burden of proof, a rate filing submitted by 
a Franchisee shall show that the rates the Franchisee proposes to charge for basic service 
and equipment are reasonable under applicable FCC regulations. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-27 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

b. 

c. 

d. 

The rate filing shall contain all applicable FCC forms and these forms shall be correctly 
and fully completed. 

The pages of each rate filing shall be numbered sequentially. 

Every rate filing shall clearly state in a cover letter: 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

Whether the rate filing justifies existing rates, or proposes an increase in rates; 

Any changes the rate filing proposes, in the form of a brief, narrative description 
of any proposed changes in rates or in service; 

The  method  on  which  any  service  rate  is  based  (e.g.,  benchmark  or  cost-of-
service); and 

Whether  any  pages  of  the  rate  filing  contain  information  that  the  Franchisee 
claims is proprietary, and so indicate clearly on each page or portion thereof. 

C.  

Review of rate filings. 

1. 

Receipt and notice of rate filings. 

a. 

b. 

After receiving a rate filing, the Administrator shall give notice that a rate filing has been 
received and that the filing is available for public review to the extent permitted by law. 
The notice shall state that interested parties may comment on the filing, and shall provide 
interested parties a reasonable time, in light of the dates by which the Administrator shall 
issue his/her orders, to submit written comments on the filing to the Administrator. 

A Franchisee shall notify the Administrator as soon as possible of any deficiencies it may 
discover in a rate filing, and shall submit an amended filing in accordance with the filing 
requirements of § 41.2-10.B as soon as possible (and in any event within five (5) business 
days)  to  cure  such  deficiencies,  together  with  a  full  explanation  of  the  deficiencies  and 
the correction. However, the provisions of § 41.2-10.C.1.a shall not apply to any refilings 
or corrected filings made by a Franchisee to replace, amend, or supplement an initial rate 
filing.  The  County  need  not  accept  any  amendment  that  is  not  filed  in  time  for  the 
Administrator to evaluate and consider in reaching a decision prior to the effective date of 
the rate.  Any  such amendment  must be accompanied by an adequate explanation of the 
changes made to the rate filing. 

2. 

Final rate order. 

a. 

b. 

After  completing  its  review  of  a  Franchisee's  rate  filing  and  any  additional  information 
submitted  in  response  to  information  requests,  the  Administrator  shall  make  any 
comments received and recommendations the Administrator's proposed actions available 
for  public  inspection.  When  the  comments  and  proposed  actions  are  made  available  for 
public  inspection,  the  Administrator  shall  set  a  reasonable  deadline  by  which  a 
Franchisee may submit a response to public comments or to the Administrator's proposed 
actions.  A  Franchisee's  response  shall  be  considered  by  the  Administrator  only  if  it  is 
submitted in a timely fashion. 

After reviewing the Franchisee's response, if any, the  Administrator shall issue a written 
order, which may be in any lawful form, approving the proposed rate in whole or in part, 
or  denying  the  proposed  rate  in  whole  or  in  part  and  determining  maximum  permitted 
rates pursuant to applicable FCC regulations. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-28 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 

c. 

The  Administrator  may  issue  partial  orders  setting  particular  rates  and  ordering  refunds 
and  other  appropriate  relief  with  regard  to  such  rates,  unless  specifically  prohibited  by 
FCC  regulations,  without  prejudice  to  their/his/her  right  to  issue  further  orders  in 
accordance with applicable FCC regulations. 

3. 

Refunds. If a rate order determines that refunds should be provided to subscribers, the  Franchisee 
shall file with the Administrator, within thirty (30) days of the date of the Administrator's order, a 
detailed  calculation  of  the  appropriate  refunds,  including  interest,  to  all  relevant  classes  of 
subscribers,  and  a  description  of  its  proposed  refund  methodology,  together  with  all  supporting 
materials  necessary  to  allow  the  Administrator  to  verify  the  Franchisee's  calculations.  The 
Franchisee's calculations shall also show, in detail, how the  Franchisee proposes to calculate any 
portion  of  the  refund  properly  attributable  to  Franchise  fees.  The  Administrator  may  require 
further  supporting  information  with  regard  to  the  Franchisee's  calculations,  and  the  Franchisee 
shall provide all such information reasonably necessary to determine the refund and Franchise fee 
amounts. 

D.  

Provisions generally applicable to rate orders. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

Form. Orders relating to rate regulation ("rate orders") shall be written and may be issued in any 
lawful form. 

Authority  to  issue  rate  orders.  The  Administrator  shall  have  the  authority  to  issue  rate  orders 
taking  any  action  that  the  County  is  permitted  to  take  by  this  §  41.2-10  including,  without 
limitation:  (i)  rate  orders  that  establish  maximum  permitted  rates  for  basic  cable  service, 
equipment  or  installation,  or  require  refunds  to  cable  subscribers  ("final  rate  orders");  (ii)  orders 
that toll deadlines for review and (2) review; and (iii) orders that allow rates to take effect subject 
to refund and/or direct a cable operator to keep an accurate account of all amounts received and on 
whose behalf such amounts were paid, pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933(a)--(c). 

Notice of final rate orders. Any final rate order shall be served on a  Franchisee no later than the 
next business day after date it is released to the public. Public notice  shall be  given of  any  final 
rate order, including releasing the text of any written decision to the public. 

Actions regarding rates. The County  may take any actions that it is not prohibited by governing 
law from taking to protect the public interest as part of any rate order or by any other means. By 
way  of  illustration  and  not  limitation,  the  Administrator  may  require  refunds;  set  rates;  impose 
forfeitures  and  penalties  directly;  enforce  refund  orders;  apply  to  the  FCC  for  determinations 
regarding the status of allegedly a la carte programming; investigate and respond to certifications 
by small systems; grant petitions for extension of time; participate in any appeals of rate decisions; 
seek  clarification  of  FCC  rules  from  the  FCC,  or  by  legal  action;  refer  cost-of-service 
determinations  to  the  FCC;  issue  default  orders;  reopen  rate  proceedings,  or  commence  new 
proceedings,  in  the  light  of  new  information  or  new  legal  or  administrative  determinations  (for 
example, modification of the FCC's regulations); or withdraw the County's certification to regulate 
rates. The  County shall  take such actions as are necessary  or appropriate to achieve the  goals of 
rate  regulation  and  to  serve  the  public  interest,  to  the  extent  permitted  by  governing  law,  in 
accordance with any pertinent deadlines set by the FCC. 

Notice and opportunity to comment. Before prescribing a rate or ordering a refund to subscribers, 
the  Administrator  shall  ensure  the  Franchisee  has  had  notice  and  an  opportunity  to  comment  on 
the  proposed  rate  or  refunds.  If  the  proposed  actions  of  the  Administrator  propose  a  refund  or  a 
rate, then mailing a copy of the proposed actions to the Franchisee at the time it is submitted to the 
Administrator  shall  be  deemed  to  provide  the  Franchisee  this  notice,  and  the  Franchisee  shall 
comment on the refund or rate in its response to the proposed actions. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-29 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

  

6. 

Rate  orders  subject  to  amendment.  No  order  approving  or  setting  a  rate  pursuant  to  FCC 
regulations shall be deemed to establish a just and reasonable rate to subscribers. Every such rate 
approved  or  established  shall  be  subject  to  further  reduction  and  refund  to  the  extent  permitted 
under applicable laws and regulations, as the same may be amended from time to time. By way of 
illustration and not limitation, should the FCC revise its rules for calculating maximum permitted 
rates,  the  Administrator  shall  have  the  right  to  reduce  a  Franchisee's  rates  and  to  require  a 
Franchisee to refund any amounts collected above the benchmark, except to the extent prohibited 
by governing law. 

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  
 
 
 
  

E.  

Franchisees' duties. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

Books and records. It is each Franchisee's responsibility at all times to keep accurate and complete 
books and records of account so that it can refund any amounts owed to subscribers. 

Completeness of filings. It is each Franchisee's duty to submit as complete a rate filing as possible. 
Knowingly  withholding  information  or  making  a  filing  that  is  incomplete  under  applicable  law 
shall  be  treated  as  a  violation  of  this  chapter,  subject  to  any  applicable  sanctions  and  remedies 
under FCC regulations, § 41.2-10.C.1.b herein, and any other applicable law or contract. 

Continuing  accuracy  and  completeness.  Each  Franchisee  is  responsible  for  the  continuing 
accuracy  and  completeness  of  information  furnished  to  the  County.  Whenever  information 
furnished  by  a  Franchisee  is  no  longer  accurate  and  complete  in  all  significant  respects,  the 
Franchisee shall correct such deficiencies as required in § 41.2-10.C.1.b. 

Information requests. A Franchisee and any other entity that has records of revenues or expenses 
that  are  allocated  to  the  Franchisee's  system  shall  respond  to  requests  for  information  from  the 
Administrator  by  deadlines  established  by  the  Administrator  (including  requests  that  specified 
information  be  submitted  at  the  time  of  future  rate  filings).  A  Franchisee  is  responsible  for 
ensuring that such other entity responds to the Administrator's requests. 

Implementation. A Franchisee shall implement remedial requirements, including prospective rate 
reductions and refunds, as soon as possible after an order requiring such remedies is issued, but in 
any case within sixty (60) days of the date the Administrator issues an order mandating a remedy. 
However,  if  FCC  regulations  require  the  Franchisee  to  implement  a  remedy  more  quickly,  or 
require  that  the  Franchisee  be  allowed  more  time  to  implement  a  remedy,  then  the  FCC 
requirement shall control. 

Certification of compliance. Within thirty (30) days after implementing a remedy, but in no event 
more than ninety (90) days after the date an order mandating a remedy is issued, a Franchisee shall 
file a certification, signed by an authorized representative of the Franchisee: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

Stating  whether  the  Franchisee  has  complied  fully  with  all  provisions  of  the 
Administrator's order; 

Describing in detail the precise measures taken to implement the Administrator's order; 

Describing in detail any respects in which the Franchisee has not complied fully with all 
provisions of the Administrator's order; and 

d. 

Showing how any applicable refunds (including interest) were calculated and distributed. 

F.  

Proprietary information. 

1. 

Submission of information deemed proprietary. If these provisions, or any request for information, 
require  the  production  of  proprietary  information,  a  Franchisee  shall  produce  the  information. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-30 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

However, at the time the allegedly proprietary information is submitted, a Franchisee may request 
that specific, identified portions of its response be treated as confidential and withheld from public 
disclosure. The request shall state the reason why the information should be treated as proprietary 
and the facts that support those reasons. Requests for confidential treatment, or for inspection of 
proprietary information, will be reviewed by the County based on FCC regulations, and applicable 
state and local law, including the Virginia Freedom of Information Act. 

Identification  of  information  deemed  proprietary.  Information  that  the  operator  claims  is 
proprietary shall be clearly identified. If it is part of a larger submission, such as a rate filing, the 
proprietary information shall be segregated from the remainder of the submission. It shall also be 
clearly  marked  so  that  the  County  may  determine  where  the  proprietary  information  belongs 
within  the  submission,  how  it  relates  to  the  remainder  of  the  submission,  and  the  basis  for  the 
Franchisee's claim that the marked material is proprietary. 

Requests  to  inspect  proprietary  information.  Any  request  for  public  records  containing 
information  designated  by  the  Franchisee  as  proprietary  shall  be  governed  by  the  Virginia 
Freedom of Information Act. 

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

G.  

 
Nondiscrimination.  Nondiscriminatory  rates.  Subject  to  applicable  law,  a  Franchisee  shall 
 
establish  rates  that  are  nondiscriminatory  within  the  same  general  class  of  subscribers  and  which  shall  be  applied 
fairly and uniformly to all subscribers in the Franchise area for all services. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit a 
Franchisee from offering, by way of illustration and not limitation, (i) discounts to senior citizens or economically 
disadvantaged groups; (ii) discounts to commercial and multiple-family dwelling subscribers billed on a bulk basis; 
(iii) promotional discounts; or (iv) reduced installation rates for subscribers who have multiple services.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98; Ord. No. 02-3, 3-9-02) 
 
§ 41.2-11. Franchise Fee. 
 
Finding. The Board finds that Public Rights-of-Way to be used by a Franchisee for the operation 
 
of a Cable System are valuable public property acquired and maintained by the State and County at great expense to 
the  taxpayers.  The  Board  further  finds  that  the  grant  of  a  Franchise  to  use  Public  Rights-of-Way  is  a  valuable 
property right without which a Franchisee would be required to invest substantial capital. 
 
Payment of franchise fee. Each Franchisee shall pay a Franchise fee of five percent (5%) of Gross 
 
Revenues, unless otherwise specified in a Certificate. Every Certificate shall reserve the right to increase this fee to 
the maximum that may be charged consistent with federal and State law. 
 
 
 
  

Payment of the Franchise fee shall not be considered in the nature of a tax or in lieu of other taxes 
or fees imposed by the County. 

Not a tax or in lieu of any other tax or fee. 

A.  

B.  

C.  

1. 

 
  

2. 

The  Franchise  fee  is  in  addition  to  all  other  taxes,  fees  and  payments  that  a  Franchisee  may  be 
required to pay under its Certificate or under any federal, State, or local law, except to the extent 
that such fees, taxes, or assessments shall be treated as a  Franchise fee under § 622 of the Cable 
Act, 47 U.S.C. § 542. 

3. 

D.  

A Franchisee shall not designate the Franchise fee as a tax in any communication to a Subscriber. 

 
  
 
No accord or satisfaction. No acceptance by or payment to the County of a franchise fee, or any 
 
portion thereof, shall be construed as a release or an accord and satisfaction of any claim the County may have for 
further  or  additional  sums  due  or  for  the  performance  of  any  other  obligation  of  a  Franchisee,  or  as  an 
acknowledgment that the amount paid is the correct amount due.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-31 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

§ 41.2-12. Reports and Records. 
 
 
 
  

A.  

1. 

Access to books and records. 

The County shall  have the right, upon reasonable  notice, to inspect and copy at any time during 
Normal Business Hours the documents, books, records, maps, plans, income tax returns, proof of 
performance tests, and other like materials of a Franchisee which the County deems appropriate in 
order to monitor compliance with a  Franchise. Access to records and other materials shall not be 
denied  by  a  Franchisee  on  the  basis  that  said  records  and  materials  contain  proprietary  or 
confidential  information.  Documents,  books,  and  records  shall  be  maintained  for  a  period  of  at 
least  five  (5)  years,  except  that  (i)  any  record  that  is  a  public  record  shall  be  maintained  for  the 
period  required  by  State  law;  (ii)  any  contract  shall  be  maintained  until  it  expires;  and  (iii)  a 
Franchise may specify a shorter period for certain categories of voluminous documents, books and 
records  where  the  information  contained  therein  can  be  derived  simply  from  other  materials. 
Failure  to  provide  any  information  required  by  this  chapter  shall  be  grounds  for  appropriate 
remedies.  All  such  information  received  by  the  County  shall  remain  confidential  insofar  as 
permitted by applicable law. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

2. 

3. 

For purposes of this chapter, the terms "records," "documents" and "books" shall be construed as 
such terms are defined in the Virginia Freedom of Information Act and shall be read expansively 
to include information in whatever format stored. Records, documents, and books requested shall 
be produced to the County at the Administrator's office, unless the County directs otherwise, or by 
agreement or pursuant to § 41.2-12.A.3. 

If any documents, books and records are too voluminous, or for security reasons cannot be copied 
and  moved,  then  a  Franchisee  may  request  that  the  inspection  take  place  at  some  other  location 
mutually  agreed  to  by  the  County  and  a  Franchisee,  provided  that  (i)  the  Franchisee  shall  make 
necessary arrangements for copying documents, books and records selected by the County after its 
review; and (ii) the Franchisee shall pay all travel and additional copying expenses incurred by the 
County  (above  those  that  would  have  been  incurred  had  the  documents,  books  and  records  been 
produced  in  the  County)  in  inspecting  those  documents,  books  and  records  or  having  those 
documents, books and records inspected by its designee. 

4. 

Without  limiting  the  foregoing,  a  Franchisee  shall  provide  the  County  with  the  following  in 
accordance with the deadlines specified in § 41-12.C: 

a. 

b. 

Notices of deficiency or forfeiture related to the operation of the System; and 

Copies of any request for protection under bankruptcy laws, or any judgment related to a 
declaration of bankruptcy by a Franchisee, or by any partnership or corporation that owns 
or controls the Franchisee directly or indirectly. 

B.  

 
Retention  of  records;  relation  to  privacy  rights.  Each  Franchisee  shall  take  all  reasonable  steps 
 
throughout the term of the Franchise to ensure that it is able to provide the County with all information which shall 
be  provided  or  may  be  requested  under  this  chapter,  a  Franchise  or  applicable  law,  including  by  providing 
appropriate Subscriber privacy notices. Each  Franchisee shall be responsible for redacting any data that applicable 
law prevents it from providing to the  County. Nothing in this section shall be read to require  Franchisee to violate 
State or federal law protecting Subscriber privacy. 
 
 
 
  

Communications with regulatory agencies. 

A Franchisee shall file with the County all reports and materials submitted to or received from the 
FCC,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission,  or  any  other  federal  or  state  regulatory 
commission or agency having jurisdiction over any matter pertaining to any aspect of operations 
hereunder  or  the  financial  arrangements  therefor.  For  purposes  of  this  subsection,  reports  and 

C.  

1. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-32 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

materials  to  be  filed  with  the  County  include,  by  way  of  example  and  not  limitation,  proof  of 
performance  tests  and  results,  Equal  Employment  Opportunity  reports,  and  all  petitions, 
applications and communications of all types regarding the Franchisee's Cable System, or a group 
of  Cable  Systems  of  which  the  Franchisee's  System  is  a  part,  including  any  such  material 
submitted  by  or  received  by  a  Franchisee,  an  Affiliate,  or  any  other  Person  on  behalf  of  the 
Franchisee. 

2. 

Materials  filed  with  the  County  pursuant  to  §  41.1-12.C.1  shall  be  submitted  as  follows:  (i) 
materials  submitted  by  a  Franchisee,  an  Affiliate,  or  any  other  Person  on  behalf  of  a  Franchisee 
shall  be  filed  with  the  County  at  the  time  they  are  submitted  to  the  receiving  agency;  and  (ii) 
materials  received  by  a  Franchisee  shall  be  filed  with  the  County  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  the 
date they are received by the  Franchisee, except that if applicable law permits a response to such 
materials by the County and sets a deadline of sixty (60) or fewer days for the County's response, 
they  shall  be  filed  with  the  County  within  five  (5)  days  of  the  date  they  are  received  by  the 
Franchisee. 

D.  

Reports. 

1. 

Within forty-five (45) days of the end of each calendar quarter, a Franchisee shall submit a report 
to the County containing the following information: 

a. 

b. 

The number of service calls (calls requiring a truck roll) received by type during the prior 
quarter,  and  the  percentage  of  service  calls  compared  to  the  Subscriber  base  by  type  of 
complaint; and 

The number and type of System Outages known by the Franchisee for the prior quarter, 
identifying separately the following: 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

Each  planned  System  Outage,  the  time  it  occurred,  its  duration,  and  the 
estimated area and number of Subscribers affected; 

Each  known  unplanned  System  Outage,  the  time  it  occurred,  its  estimated 
duration  and  the  estimated  area  and  number  of  Subscribers  affected,  and  if 
known, the cause; and 

The  total  estimated  hours  of  known  System  Outages  as  a  percentage  of  total 
hours of Cable System operation. 

2. 

No later than ninety (90) days after the end of its fiscal year, a  Franchisee shall submit a written 
report to the Administrator containing such information as may be required from time to time by 
the County, and at least the following: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

A  summary  of  the  previous  year's  activities  in  the  development  of  the  Cable  System, 
including descriptions of services begun or discontinued, and the number of  Subscribers 
gained or lost for each category of Cable Service; 

A summary of complaints for which records are required under § 41.2-12.E.1, identifying 
both  the  number  and  nature  of  the  complaints  received  and  an  explanation  of  their 
dispositions; 

A  fully  audited  revenue  report  from  the  previous  calendar  year  for  the  Cable  System 
prepared  according  to  Generally  Accepted  Auditing  Standards  by  an  independent 
certified public accountant; 

d. 

A  statement  of  the  Franchisee's  financial  operations  for  the  immediately  preceding  year 

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-33 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

e. 

f. 

g. 

h. 

i. 

in such form and in such detail as will show the Franchisee's rate of return on investment, 
cash flow, and such other information as may be reported by the County; 

An ownership report, indicating all  Persons  who at the time of  filing control or own an 
interest in the Franchisee of five percent (5%) or more; 

A  list  of  officers  and  members  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Franchisee  and  any 
Affiliates directly involved in the operation or the maintenance of the Cable System; 

An  organizational  chart  showing  all  Persons  with  more  than  a  five  percent  (5%) 
ownership  interest  in  the  Franchisee,  and  the  nature  of  that  ownership  interest  (whether 
limited partner, general partner, preferred shareholder, or other Person); and showing the 
same  information  for  each  corporation  or  partnership  that  holds  such  an  interest  in  the 
corporations  or  partnerships  so  identified,  and  so  on,  until  the  ultimate  corporate  and 
partnership interests are identified; 

An  annual  report  for  each  entity  identified  in  §  41.2-12.D.2.g  which  issues  an  annual 
report; and 

A  complete  report  on  the  Franchisee's  plant.  This  plant  report  shall  state  the  physical 
miles  of  plant  construction  and  plant  in  operation  during  the  prior  calendar  year 
(categorized as aerial and underground, and as fiber optic, including the fiber count, and 
coaxial); identify any cases where Subscribers contributed to plant extension; and report 
the  results  of  appropriate  electronic  measurements  to  show  conformity  with  FCC 
technical standards. Each  Franchisee shall annually provide a  Countywide  map of cable 
facilities  in  the  Public  Rights-of-Way.  The  map  shall  be  referenced  to  Virginia  State 
Plane  Coordinates,  the  Alexandria  Drafting  Company  grid  system,  or  any  subsequent 
system adopted by the County, and shall be in both digital and paper formats. The annual 
map shall have an interlinked data base table of addresses of homes passed,  which  may 
be displayed upon the digital map. 

3. 

Notwithstanding  the  above,  once  the  information  required  by  §  41.2-12.D.2.e—through  41.2-
12.D.2.g has been filed once, it need only be refiled if it changes. 

E.  

Records required. A Franchisee shall at all times maintain: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Records of all complaints received with information sufficient to allow a Franchisee to prepare the 
reports  required  in  this  §  41.2-12.  The  term  "complaints"  as  used  herein  and  throughout  this 
chapter  refers  to  written  complaints,  and  written  documentation  of  oral  complaints  that  are  not 
resolved  in  a  Franchisee's  initial  conversation  with  a  Subscriber,  about  any  aspect  of  the  Cable 
System  or  a  Franchisee's  operations,  including,  without  limitation,  complaints  requiring  service 
calls,  and  complaints  about  employee  courtesy,  billing,  prices,  programming,  outages  and  signal 
quality; 

Records  of  outages  known  to  a  Franchisee,  with  information  sufficient  to  allow  a  Franchisee  to 
prepare the reports required in this § 41.2-12; 

Records  of  service  calls  for  repairs  and  maintenance  indicating  the  date  and  time  service  was 
requested,  the  date  of  acknowledgment  and  date  and  time  service  was  scheduled  (if  it  was 
scheduled),  and  the  date  and  time  service  was  provided,  and  (if  different)  the  date  and  time  the 
problem was solved; and 

Records  of  installation/reconnection  and  requests  for  service  extension,  indicating  the  date  of 
request, the date of acknowledgment, and the date and time service was extended. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-34 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

F.  

Additional records and reports. The County may require Franchisees to maintain records, and to 
 
prepare reports relevant to determining a Franchisee's compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter and a 
Franchise. 
 
 
 
  

Maps. 

G.  

1. 

Each  Franchisee  shall  maintain  accurate  as  built  maps  and  improvement  plans  which  show  the 
location, size, and a general description of all facilities installed in the Public Rights-of-Way and 
any power  supply sources (including  voltages and connections). Maps  shall be based  upon post-
construction  inspection  to  verify  location.  Each  Franchisee  shall  provide  a  map  to  the  County 
showing  the  location  of  its  facilities,  in  such  detail  and  scale  as  may  be  directed  by  the 
Administrator. New as built maps shall be promptly submitted to the County when a Cable System 
expands or is relocated. Copies of maps shall be provided in digital format. 

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

During specific project construction, each  Franchisee shall submit permit plans in digital format, 
along with fifty (50) scale paper copies. 

All  maps  and  permit  plans  shall  be  submitted  in  digital  format,  such  as  a  DXF  file,  compatible 
with ESRI ArcInfo 8.0 software or other software as required by the  County, and shall be tied to 
Virginia State Plane Coordinates or the Alexandria Drafting Company grid system. 

H.  

Performance evaluation. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The  County  may,  at  its  discretion,  hold  performance  evaluation  sessions.  All  such  evaluation 
sessions  shall  be  open  to  the  public.  A  Franchisee  may  be  required  by  the  County  to  notify 
Subscribers of all such evaluation sessions by announcement on a designated local channel on the 
System between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. for five (5) consecutive days preceding each 
session. 

Topics that may be discussed at any evaluation session may include, but not be limited to, System 
performance  and  construction,  a  Franchisee's  compliance  with  this  chapter  and  its  Certificate, 
customer  service  and  complaint  response,  Subscriber  privacy,  services  provided,  programming 
offered, service rate structures, Franchise fees, penalties, free or discounted services, applications 
of new technologies, judicial and FCC filings, and line extensions. 

During  the  evaluation  process,  a  Franchisee  shall  fully  cooperate  with  the  County  and  shall 
provide  such  information  and  documents  as  the  County  may  need  to  reasonably  perform  its 
review, including information which may be deemed proprietary. 

Waiver  of  reporting  requirements.  The  Board  may,  at  its  discretion,  waive  in  writing  the 

I.  

J.  

 
 
requirement of any particular report specified in this § 41.2-12. 
 
 
Certificate, for as long as the Franchisee continues to operate a System or any portion thereof.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-13. Indemnification of the County and Residents. 
 
 
 
  

Indemnification and hold harmless. 

A.  

1. 

No Franchise or other authorization to use the  Public Rights-of-Way issued to a Franchisee shall 
be valid or effective until and unless the County obtains adequate indemnity from such Franchisee. 
The indemnity shall, at a minimum: 

 
  

a. 

Release,  indemnify,  hold  harmless,  and  defend  the  County,  its  elected  and  appointed 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-35 

Office. Every Franchisee shall maintain an office in the County at a place to be determined in the 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

officials,  officers,  boards,  commissions,  commissioners,  agents,  and  employees  against 
any and all claims, suits, causes of action (whether frivolous or otherwise), proceedings, 
and  judgments  for  damages  or  equitable  relief  arising  out  of  the  construction, 
maintenance,  or  operation  of  a  Cable  System;  copyright  infringements  or  a  failure  by  a 
Franchisee, or its  Affiliates to secure consents  from the owners, authorized distributors, 
or  franchisees  of  programs  to  be  delivered  by  the  Cable  System,  other  than  programs 
delivered  on  Public,  Educational  or  Governmental  Access  Channels,  Channels  leased 
pursuant  to  47  U.S.C.  §  532,  or  an  institutional  network  (excluding  programming 
controlled by the Franchisee); the acts, errors, or omissions of a Franchisee or its agents, 
employees or independent contractors; the conduct or presence of a Franchisee's business 
in  the  County;  or  in  any  way  arising  out  of  a  Franchisee's  enjoyment  or  exercise  of  the 
privileges granted by a Franchise, regardless of whether the act or omission complained 
of  is  authorized,  allowed,  or  prohibited  by  this  chapter  or  a  Franchise.  Each  Franchisee 
agrees  not  to  sue  or  to  seek  any  monetary  damages  from  the  County,  including  the 
Persons  and  entities  described  in  this  subparagraph,  in  connection  with  the  above-
mentioned  matters.  This  indemnification  does  not  extend  to  claims  by  a  Franchisee 
against the County for injunctive relief to enforce the terms of a Franchise; 

Indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the County, and its elected and appointed officials, 
officers,  boards,  commissions,  commissioners,  employees,  and  agents  from  and  against 
any  and  all  claims,  demands,  suits,  or  causes  of  action  of  any  kind  or  nature,  and  the 
resulting  losses,  costs,  expenses,  reasonable  attorneys'  fees,  orders,  decrees,  liabilities, 
and judgments, whether for damages or otherwise, subject to 47 U.S.C. § 558, arising out 
of  or  alleged  to  arise  out  of  any  claim  against  a  Franchisee  for  invasion  of  the  right  of 
privacy,  defamation  of  any  Person,  or  the  violation  or  infringement  of  any  copyright, 
trade mark, trade name, service mark, or patent, or of any other right of any Person. This 
indemnity  does  not  apply 
to  programming  carried  on  Public,  Educational  or 
Governmental Access Channels, or Channels leased pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 532, unless a 
Franchisee  was  in  any  respect  engaged  in  determining  the  editorial  content  of  the 
program,  or  adopts  a  policy  of  prescreening  programming  for  the  purported  purpose  of 
banning or regulating indecent or obscene programming; 

Provide  that  the  County  shall  give  a  Franchisee  prompt  notice  of  any  claim  or  the 
commencement of any action, suit or other proceeding covered by the provisions of this § 
41.1-13.A.  The  Franchisee  shall  provide  the  defense  of  any  claims  brought  against  the 
County under this subsection of the Code or similar provisions in a Franchise, subject to 
the terms of any applicable insurance policy, by selecting and paying for counsel of the 
Franchisee's  choice  to  defend  the  claim,  subject  to  the  consent  of  the  County,  which 
consent  shall  not  be  unreasonably  withheld.  Nothing  herein  shall  be  deemed  to  prevent 
the  County  from  cooperating  with  a  Franchisee  and  participating  in  the  defense  of  any 
litigation  by  its  own  counsel  at  its  own  cost  and  expense;  provided,  however,  that  after 
consultation  with  the  County,  a  Franchisee  shall  have  the  right  to  defend  or  settle  any 
claim  or  action  arising  hereunder,  and  the  Franchisee  shall  have  the  authority  to  decide 
the appropriateness and the amount of any such settlement. In the event that the  County 
does  not  consent  to  the  terms  of  any  such  settlement  or  compromise  agreed  to  by  the 
claimant  or  claimants,  then  a  Franchisee  shall  not  settle  the  claim  or  action,  but  its 
obligation to indemnify the County shall in no event exceed the amount of such otherwise 
agreed upon settlement. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

Provide  that  the  covenants  and  representations  relating  to  the  indemnification  and  hold 
harmless  provisions  shall  survive  the  term  of  any  Franchise  for  acts  of  a  Franchisee 
committed while a Franchise was in effect or performed under color of a  Franchise after 
the expiration, revocation, cancellation, termination or forfeiture of the Franchise; and 

e. 

Provide  that,  to  the  extent  permitted  by  applicable  rules  of  civil,  criminal  and  appellate 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-36 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

procedure, a  Franchisee shall  not implead or join the  Board, the  County, its elected and 
appointed officers, officials, boards, commissions, commissioners, employees, and agents 
in any cause of action against the Franchisee arising out of the exercise of any rights the 
Franchisee  has  under  its  Franchise,  unless  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction  has 
determined that the County is a necessary party. 

Nothing in this Chapter or a Franchise shall be construed to waive the tort or any other immunity 
or  applicable  defense  of  the  County,  and  its  elected  and  appointed  officials,  officers,  Boards, 
commissions, commissioners, agents, and employees. 

Neither the provisions of this section nor any damages recovered by the County shall be construed 
to limit the liability of a Franchisee for damages to the County, its elected and appointed officers, 
officials, Boards, commissions, employees, and agents under the Franchise. 

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

B.  

 
Insurance. No Franchise to use the Public Rights-of-Way issued to a Franchisee shall be valid or 
 
effective  until  and  unless  the  County  obtains  assurance  that  the  Franchisee  (and  those  acting  on  its  behalf)  have 
adequate insurance. At a minimum, the following insurance requirements shall be satisfied by a Franchisee: 
 
  

1. 

A Franchisee shall not commence construction or operation of a  Cable System without obtaining 
all  insurance  required  under  this  section  and  approval  of  such  insurance  by  the  County.  The 
required  insurance  shall  be  obtained  and  maintained  for  the  entire  term  of  a  Franchise,  or  any 
extension(s) thereof. If the  Franchisee, its contractors or subcontractors do not have the  required 
insurance,  then  the  County  may  order  such  entities  to  stop  operations  until  the  insurance  is 
obtained and approved. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

4. 

Certificates  of  insurance,  reflecting  evidence  of  the  required  insurance,  shall  be  filed  with  the 
County.  For  entities  that  are  entering  the  market,  the  certificates  shall  be  filed  prior  to  the 
commencement of construction and once a year thereafter, and as provided below in the event of a 
lapse in coverage. For entities that have facilities in the  Public Rights-of-Way as of the effective 
date of this chapter, the certificate shall be filed within sixty (60) days of the date of this chapter, 
annually  thereafter,  and  as  provided  below  in  the  event  of  a  lapse  in  coverage,  unless  a  pre-
existing Certificate provides for filing of certificates in a different manner. 

These certificates shall contain a provision that coverages afforded under these policies will not be 
canceled,  suspended,  or  amended  until  at  least  sixty  (60)  days'  prior  written  notice  has  been 
delivered  to  the  Administrator.  Policies  shall  be  issued  by  companies  authorized  to  do  business 
under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Financial ratings shall be no less than "A-1" in 
the latest edition of "Best's Key Rating Guide," published by A.M. Best Guide. 

In the event that the insurance certificate provided indicates that the insurance shall terminate or 
lapse during the term of a Franchise, then in that event, the Franchisee shall furnish, at least thirty 
(30) days' prior to the expiration of the date of such insurance, a renewed certificate of insurance 
as  evidence  that  equal  and  like  coverage  will  be  in  force  for  the  balance  of  the  period  of  the 
Franchise under which the Cable System operates. Certified copies of the required policies will be 
provided by the Franchisee to the County upon request. 

5. 

A Franchisee and its contractors or subcontractors engaged in work on the Franchisee's behalf in, 
on, under or over Public Rights-of-Way, shall maintain the following minimum insurance: 

a. 

Commercial  General Liability insurance  with respect to the construction, operation, and 
maintenance of a Cable System, and the conduct of a Franchisee's business in the County, 
in a minimum amount of five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) per occurrence, combined 
single limit for property damage and bodily injury. The policy must include coverage for 
Contractual  Liability,  Premises  and  Operations,  Independent  Contractors,  Broad  Form 
Property Damage, Personal  Injury, and  Products and  Completed Operations. The policy 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-37 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

b. 

c. 

d. 

shall also include coverage for explosion, collapse and underground (XCU) hazard. The 
Completed  Operations  and  Products  liability  insurance  specified  above  shall  cover  all 
occurrences  during  the  term  of  the  policy,  including  any  occurrence  discovered  within 
two  (2)  years  after  the  termination  of  a  Franchise  (in  the  case  of  a  System  owner  or 
operator)  or  completion  of  work  for  the  System  owner  (in  the  case  of  a  contractor  or 
subcontractor). 

Automobile Liability Coverage, with a minimum limit of liability of two million dollars 
($2,000,000.00),  per  occurrence,  combined  single  limit  for  bodily  injury  and  property 
damage  coverage.  The  policy  must  include  coverage  for  owned  automobiles,  leased  or 
hired automobiles, and non-owned automobiles. 

Broadcasters'  Liability  Coverage,  covering  errors  and  omissions  and  negligent  acts  and 
other operations of a Franchisee, committed during the term of a  Franchise, with a limit 
of liability of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per claim and aggregate and a 
maximum deductible of twenty-five thousand ($25,000.00). 

Workers'  Compensation  Coverage  meeting  all  requirements  of  Virginia  law  and 
Employers'  Liability  Coverage,  with  the  following  minimum  limits:  Bodily  Injury  by 
Accident – one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) each accident, Bodily Injury by 
Disease – five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) policy limits and Bodily Injury by 
Disease – one  hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) each employee. Each  Franchisee 
shall require its subcontractors similarly to provide workers' compensation insurance for 
all  the  latter's  employees  unless  such  employees  are  covered  by  the  protection  afforded 
by each Franchisee. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

All of the insurance policies providing the coverage required by this Section shall respond to valid 
claims  occurring  during  the  policy  term  on  an  occurrence  basis.  In  the  event  that  any  of  the 
occurrence  policies  above  are  replaced  by  a  claims-made  policy,  such  policy  shall  provide  for  a 
retroactive reporting date which coincides with the effective date of a Franchise, and shall include 
an  extended  reporting  period  of  no  less  than  one  (1)  year  after  its  termination  date.  Such 
replacement shall be brought  to the attention of the  County, in  writing, no later than  fifteen (15) 
days before the replacement date. 

All  liability  insurance  policies,  excluding  those  specified  in  §  41.2-13.B.5.b  and  41.2-13.B.5.d, 
shall  name  the  County,  its  elected  and  appointed  officers,  officials,  boards,  commissions, 
employees,  and  agents  as  additional  insureds.  In  the  event  of  a  claim  under  any  of  the  above 
insurance policies, the Franchisee shall pay all deductibles. 

In  every  Certificate,  the  County  shall  reserve  the  right  to:  (i)  review  the  insurance  amounts  and 
policy  terms  specified  in  paragraph  5  no  more  than  once  a  year;  and  (ii)  require  reasonable 
adjustments to such amounts and policy terms, consistent with the public interest. 

Failure  to  comply  with  the  insurance  requirements  set  forth  in  this  section  shall  constitute  a 
material violation of a Franchise.  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-14. Performance Bond, Security Fund, Revocation and Termination Due to Bankruptcy. 
 
Performance bond. Every certificate shall require the Franchisee to post a performance bond in an 
 
amount acceptable to the County to secure the performance of the Franchisee's obligations to repair and restore the 
Public Rights-of-Way in accordance with this Code. 
 
 
 

Security fund. 

A.  

B.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-38 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

  

1. 

Every Franchisee shall establish a Security Fund to secure the payment of fees owed, to secure any 
other performance promised in a Certificate or required by this Code, and to pay any taxes, fees or 
liens owed to the County. The Board, or its designee, shall set the amount of the Security Fund in 
a Certificate. Any letter of credit provided to satisfy this requirement shall be in a form acceptable 
to the County Attorney and with an institution acceptable to the Administrator. Should the County 
draw  upon  the  Security  Fund,  it  shall  promptly  notify  the  Franchisee,  and  the  Franchisee  shall 
promptly  restore  the  Security  Fund  to  the  full  required  amount.  This  Security  Fund  may  be 
reduced  by  the  Board  for  a  Franchisee  where  the  Board  determines,  in  its  discretion,  that  a 
particular Franchisee's operations are sufficiently limited that a  Security Fund is not necessary to 
secure  the  required  performance.  The  Board  may  from  time  to  time  increase  the  amount  of  the 
required Security Fund to reflect increased risks to the County and to the public. 

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

The following procedures shall apply to drawing on the Security Fund: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

If a Franchisee fails to make timely payment to the  County of any amount due under its 
Certificate,  this  Chapter,  or  other  applicable  law,  or  fails  to  compensate  the  County 
within  ten  (10)  days  of  written  notification  that  such  compensation  is  due,  for  any 
damages, costs, or expenses the County suffers or incurs by reason of any act or omission 
of the Franchisee in connection with this Agreement or its enforcement, or fails, after ten 
(10) days' written notice, to comply with any provision of its  Certificate or this  Chapter 
that the Administrator determines can be remedied by an expenditure of the security, the 
County  may  withdraw  the  amount  thereof,  with  interest  and  any  penalties,  from  the 
Security Fund. 

Within three (3) days of a withdrawal from the Security Fund, the County shall mail to a 
Franchisee, by certified mail, return receipt requested, written notification of the amount, 
date, and purpose of such withdrawal to the Franchisee. 

If  at  the  time  of  a  withdrawal  from  the  Security  Fund  by  the  County,  the  amounts 
available  are  insufficient  to  provide  the  total  payment  towards  which  the  withdrawal  is 
directed, the balance of such payment shall continue as the obligation of the Franchisee to 
the County until it is paid. 

No later than thirty (30) days after mailing of notification to the  Franchisee by certified 
mail,  return  receipt  requested,  of  a  withdrawal  under  the  Security  Fund,  the  Franchisee 
shall restore the Security Fund to the total amount specified herein. 

Upon termination of the Franchise under conditions other than those stipulating forfeiture 
of the Security Fund, the balance then remaining in the Security Fund shall be returned to 
the Franchisee within ninety (90) days of such termination, provided that there is then no 
outstanding default on the part of the Franchisee. 

Failure  constitutes  material  violation.  Failure  to  maintain  or  restore  the  Security  Fund  or  a 

C.  

 
 
Performance Bond shall constitute a material violation of this chapter and a Certificate. 
 
 
 
  

Revocation, or reduction of franchise term. 

D.  

1. 

When,  after  notice  and  providing  a  Franchisee  with  an  opportunity  to  be  heard,  the  Board  finds 
that a System is being maintained or operated in violation of this chapter or in substantial violation 
of the terms of a Franchise, the Board may make an appropriate reduction in the remaining term of 
a Franchise or revoke a Franchise. Before a Franchise is revoked or shortened, the  Administrator 
shall establish and conduct a compliance proceeding that comports with the requirements of this § 
41.2-14.C.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  compliance  proceeding,  the  Administrator  shall  transmit  a 
recommended  decision 
the  Administrator's 
recommendation  to  the  Board,  but  any  such  appeal  shall  be  filed  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  the 

the  Board.  A  Franchisee  may  appeal 

to 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-39 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

receipt  by  the  Franchisee  of  the  written  decision  of  the  Administrator.  If  no  appeal  is  filed,  the 
Board  may  immediately  determine  whether  to  revoke  or  shorten  the  term  of  a  Franchise  in 
accordance with the requirements of this provision. However, if an appeal is filed by a Franchisee, 
the Board shall not revoke or shorten the term of the Franchise until the appeal has been decided. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Franchise may not be revoked unless a Franchisee (i) was given 
notice  of  the  default;  (ii)  was  given  thirty  (30)  days  to  cure  the  default;  and  (iii)  the  Franchisee 
failed to cure the default, or to propose a schedule for curing the default that is acceptable to the 
County.  The  required  notice  may  be  given  before  the  Administrator  conducts  the  proceeding 
required by this paragraph. No opportunity to cure is required for repeated material violations or 
any Transfer without the prior consent of the County, and fraud may be deemed incurable. 

2. 

Upon termination of a Franchise, whether by action of the Board as provided above, or by passage 
of time, a  Franchisee shall be obligated to cease using its  System for the purposes authorized by 
the Franchise. The County may either take possession of some or all of the  Franchisee's facilities 
in  the  Public  Rights-of-Way  or  require  the  Franchisee  or  its  surety  to  remove  some  or  all  of  the 
Franchisee's facilities  from the  Public Rights-of-Way and to restore the  Public Rights-of-Way to 
their  proper  condition.  Notwithstanding  anything  in  this  chapter  to  the  contrary,  should  a 
Franchisee fail, refuse, or neglect to remove such facility, the  County may remove the facility at 
the  expense  of  the  Franchisee.  Regardless  of  the  existence  or  amount  of  any  security  fund  or 
performance  bond,  the  obligation  of  a  Franchisee  to  remove  shall  survive  the  termination  of  the 
Franchise.  This  provision,  however,  does  not  authorize  the  County  to  take  possession  of,  or 
require a Franchisee to remove, any facilities that are used to provide another service for which the 
Franchisee holds a valid Franchise issued by the Board. 

E.  

Termination due to bankruptcy. 

1. 

2. 

 

Any  Franchise  may,  at  the  option  of  the  County  following  a  public  hearing,  be  revoked  by  the 
Board one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after an assignment for the benefit of creditors or 
the appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over the business of the  Franchisee, whether in a 
receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy assignment for the benefit of creditors, or other action or 
proceeding, unless within that one hundred twenty (120) day period: 

a. 

b. 

Such assignment, receivership, or trusteeship has been vacated; or 

Such  assignee,  receiver,  or  trustee  has  fully  complied  with  the  terms  and  conditions  of 
this chapter and the applicable Certificate and has executed an agreement, approved by a 
court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  under  which  it  assumes  and  agrees  to  be  bound  by  the 
terms  and  conditions  of  this  chapter  and  the  applicable  Certificate,  and  such  other 
conditions as may be established or as are required under § 41.2-13 of this chapter. 

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  in  the  event  of  foreclosure  or  other  judicial  sale  of  any  of  the 
facilities, equipment, or property of a Franchisee, the Board may revoke the Franchise, following a 
public hearing, by serving notice on the  Franchisee and the successful bidder, in which event the 
Franchise and all rights and privileges of the  Franchise  will be revoked and  will terminate thirty 
(30) calendar days after serving such notice, unless: 

a. 

b. 

The Board has approved the Transfer of the Franchise to the successful bidder; and 

The  successful  bidder  has  covenanted  and  agreed  with  the  County  to  assume  and  be 
bound  by  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  Certificate  and  this  chapter,  and  such  other 
conditions  as  may  be  established  or  as  are  required  pursuant  to  this  chapter  or  a 
Certificate. 

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
Penalties and forfeitures. In addition to any other remedies available, a Franchisee may be subject 
 
to penalties and forfeitures for any violation of this chapter, unless prohibited by applicable law, including, without 

F.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-40 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

limitation: 
 
  
 
  

1. 

2. 

Any knowing submission of false or fraudulent information to the County; 

Any failure to comply with any lawful order of the  County or request for information under this 
chapter; or 

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

3. 

An evasion of any lawful order of the  County, any provision of  this  chapter, or other applicable 
law. 

G.  

Purchase or transfer of a cable system by the County. 

1. 

2. 

If a Franchise granted under this chapter expires, the County may acquire ownership of the Cable 
System at Fair Market Value, subject to a Franchisee's rights under 47 U.S.C. § 546. 

If the Board revokes or terminates a Franchise for cause, the County may acquire ownership of the 
Cable System at an Equitable Price. 

I.  

H.  

 
Remedies  cumulative.  All  remedies  under  this  chapter  and  any  Certificate  are  cumulative  unless 
 
otherwise expressly stated. The exercise of one (1) remedy shall not foreclose use of another, nor shall the exercise 
of a remedy or the payment of liquidated damages or penalties relieve a Franchisee of its obligations to comply with 
its Franchise. Remedies may be used singly or in combination; in addition, the County may exercise any rights it has 
at law or equity. 
 
Relation to insurance and indemnity requirements. Recovery by the County of any amounts under 
 
insurance, a  Security Fund, a performance bond, or otherwise does not limit a  Franchisee's duty to indemnify and 
hold harmless the County and its elected and appointed officers, officials,  Boards, commission, employees, agents 
and volunteers in any way; nor shall such recovery relieve a Franchisee of its obligations under a Franchise, limit the 
amounts owed to the County, or in any respect prevent the County from exercising any other right or remedy it may 
have. Nothing herein shall be construed to authorize the double-recovery of damages. 
 
Effects  of  litigation.  Pending  litigation  or  any  appeal  to  any  regulatory  body  or  court  having 
 
jurisdiction  over  a  Franchisee  shall  not  excuse  the  Franchisee  from  the  performance  of  its  obligations  under  this 
chapter or its Certificate unless a stay specifically applicable to the performance of the obligation is obtained from a 
court or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction. Failure of the Franchisee to perform such obligations because of 
pending  litigation  or  a  petition,  in  the  absence  of  a  stay  issued  by  a  court  or  regulatory  body  of  competent 
jurisdiction, may result in forfeiture or revocation pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and/or a Certificate.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-15. Transfers. 
 
 
 
  

A  Franchise  shall  be  a  privilege  that  is  in  the  public  trust  and  personal  to  the  Franchisee.  A 
Franchisee's obligations under its Franchise involve personal services whose performance involves 
personal credit, trust, and confidence in the Franchisee. 

Board approval required. 

A.  

J.  

1. 

 
  

 

2. 

No Transfer (including, but not limited to, Transfer as a result of forced or voluntary sale, merger, 
consolidation, receivership, or any other means) shall occur unless prior application is made by the 
Franchisee to the Board and the Board's prior written consent is obtained, pursuant to this chapter 
and a Certificate, and only then upon such terms and conditions as the Board deems necessary and 
proper.  Any  such  Transfer  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  the  Board  shall  be  considered  to 
impair the County's assurance of due performance. The granting of approval for a Transfer in one 
instance shall not render unnecessary approval of any subsequent Transfer. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-41 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

  
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 

3. 

Application. 

a. 

b. 

A  Franchisee  shall  promptly  notify  the  Administrator  of  any  proposed  Transfer.  If  any 
Transfer should take place without prior notice to the  Administrator, the Franchisee will 
promptly notify the County that such a Transfer has occurred. 

At least one hundred twenty (120) calendar days prior to the contemplated effective date 
of a Transfer, the Franchisee shall submit to the Administrator an application for approval 
of the Transfer. Such an application shall provide complete information on the proposed 
transaction, including details on the legal, financial, technical, and other qualifications of 
the transferee, and on the potential impact of the Transfer on Subscriber rates and service. 
At a  minimum, the  following information shall be included in the application, provided 
that,  a  Franchisee  is  not  required  to  duplicate  information  that  it  submits  to  the 
Administrator to comply with its obligations under federal or State law: 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 

All information and forms required under federal law or the equivalent of such 
forms if no longer required by federal law; 

All  information  required  in  §§  41.2-4.C.1  to  41.2-4.C.5,  41.2-4.C.11  and  41.2-
4.C.14 of this chapter, with respect to the proposed transferee; 

Any  contracts,  financing  documents,  or  other  documents  that  relate  to  the 
proposed transaction, and all documents, schedules, exhibits, or the like referred 
to therein; 

Any documents related to the transaction that have been provided to any entity 
that has been asked to provide financing (debt, equity, or any other kind) for, or 
to underwrite any offering made in connection with, the proposed transaction; 

Any  shareholder  reports  or  filings  with 
the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Commission or the Federal Trade Commission that discuss the transaction, and 
any filings required under federal or  State law in connection with the proposed 
transaction; 

Complete  financial  statements  for  the  transferor  and  the  proposed  transferee(s) 
for  the  last  three  (3)  years,  including  balance  sheets,  income  statements,  profit 
and loss statements, and documents detailing capital investments and operating 
costs; 

A  detailed  description  of  the  sources  and  amounts  of  funds  to  be  used  in  the 
proposed  transaction,  indicating  how  the  debt-to-equity  ratio  of  the  Cable 
System will change in the course of the transaction; what entities will be liable 
for repayment of any debt incurred; what interest, payment schedule, and other 
terms  or  conditions  will  apply  to  any  debt  financing;  any  debt  coverages  or 
financial ratios any potential transferee(s)  will be required to maintain over the 
term  of  a  Franchise  if  the  proposed  transaction  is  approved;  what  financial 
resources  would  be  available  to  the  System  under  the  control  of  the  proposed 
transferee; whether the proposed transferee can meet debt-to-equity or any other 
required  ratios  without  increasing  rates,  with  any  assumptions  underlying  that 
conclusion, and if not, what increases would be required, at what specific dates, 
and why; 

(8) 

Complete  information  regarding  any  potential  impact  of  the  Transfer  on 
Subscriber rates and service; 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-42 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

  

 
  

 
  

 
  

(9) 

(10) 

Any  representations  made  to  anyone,  in  connection  with  the  transaction,  about 
the transferor's compliance with its Franchise; and 

A brief summary of the proposed transferee's plans for at least the next five (5) 
years regarding line extension, plant and equipment upgrades, Channel capacity, 
expansion  or  elimination  of  services,  and  any  other  changes  affecting  or 
enhancing the performance of the Cable System. This summary shall include the 
expected dates that specific plans  will be implemented, and the projected costs 
of such plans. 

In addition to providing the information specified in § 41.2-15.A.3.b, a Franchisee shall, 
at  the  request  of  the  County,  furnish  any  other  information  necessary  to  provide  a 
complete and accurate understanding of the financial position of the Cable System before 
and after the proposed Transfer. 

For the purposes of determining whether it shall consent to a  Transfer, the County or its 
agents  may  inquire  into  all  qualifications  of  the  prospective  transferee  and  such  other 
matters  as  the  County  may  deem  necessary  and  relevant  to  determine  whether  the 
Transfer  is  in  the  public  interest  and  should  be  approved,  denied,  or  conditioned  as 
provided under § 41.2-15.B. A Franchisee and any prospective transferees shall assist the 
County  in any such inquiry, and if  they  fail to do so, the request  for a  Transfer  may be 
denied. 

c. 

d. 

C.  

B.  

 
Determination by County. In making a determination as to whether to grant, deny, or grant subject 
 
to conditions, an application  for a Transfer of a  Franchise,  the  County  may consider,  without limitation, the legal, 
financial,  and  technical  qualifications  of  the  transferee  to  operate  the  Cable  System;  any  potential  effects  of  the 
Transfer on Subscriber rates or services; whether a Franchisee is in compliance with its Franchise, and this chapter 
and,  if  not,  the  proposed  transferee's  commitment  to  cure  such  noncompliance;  whether  the  transferee  owns  or 
controls  any  other  Cable  System  in  the  County,  and  whether  operation  by  the  transferee  may  eliminate  or  reduce 
competition in the delivery of Cable Service in the County; and whether operation by the transferee or approval of 
the Transfer would adversely affect Subscribers, the public, or the County's interest under this chapter, a Franchise, 
or other applicable law. 
 
Transferee's  agreement.  No  application  for  a  Transfer  of  a  Franchise  shall  be  granted  unless  the 
 
transferee agrees in writing that it will abide by and accept all terms of this chapter and the Franchise and that it will 
assume the obligations, liabilities, and responsibility for all acts and omissions, known and unknown, of the previous 
Franchisee under this chapter and the Franchise, for all purposes, including renewal. 
 
Approval  does  not  constitute  waiver.  Approval  by  the  Board  of  a  Transfer  does  not  constitute  a 
 
waiver or release of any of the rights of the County under this chapter or a Certificate, whether arising before or after 
the date of the Transfer. 
 
Exception for intra-company transfers. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Certificate may provide 
 
that  Transfers  to  Affiliates  of  a  Franchisee  shall  be  excepted  from  the  requirements  of  §  41.2-15.A  where  (i)  the 
Affiliate is wholly-owned and managed by an entity that will guarantee the performance under a Franchise; and (ii) 
the transferee Affiliate: 
 
  

Notifies the Administrator of the Transfer at least sixty (60) days before it occurs and, at that time 
provides  the  agreements  and  warranties  required  by  this  §  41.2-15,  describes  the  nature  of  the 
Transfer,  and  submits  complete  information  describing  who  will  have  direct  and  indirect 
ownership and control of the Cable System after the Transfer; 

D.  

E.  

1. 

 
  

 

2. 

Warrants that it has read, accepts and agrees to be bound by each and every term of the Certificate 
and related amendments, regulations, ordinances and resolutions then in effect; 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-43 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

Agrees to assume all responsibility for all liabilities, acts and omissions, known and unknown, of 
its predecessor Franchisee(s), for all purposes, including renewal; 

Agrees that the Transfer shall not permit it to take any position or exercise any right which could 
not have been exercised by its predecessor Franchisee(s); 

Warrants  that  the  Transfer  will  not  substantially  increase  the  financial  burdens  upon  or 
substantially diminish the financial resources available to the Franchisee (the warranty to be based 
on comparing the burdens upon and resources that will be available to the transferee compared to 
its predecessors), or otherwise adversely affect the ability of the Franchisee to perform; 

Warrants  that  the  Transfer  will  not  in  any  way  adversely  affect  the  County  or  Subscribers 
(including by increasing rates); 

Notifies  the  County  that  the  Transfer  is  complete  within  five  (5)  business  days  of  the  date  the 
Transfer is completed; and 

Agrees  that  the  Transfer  in  no  way  affects  any  evaluation  of  its  legal,  financial  or  technical 
qualifications  that  may  occur  under  the  Franchise  or  applicable  law  after  the  Transfer,  and  does 
not directly or indirectly authorize any additional Transfers.  

(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-16. Open Video Systems. 
 
 
 
  

A.  

1. 

Applicability of chapter. 

This  chapter  shall  apply  to  open  video  systems  that  comply  with  47  U.S.C.  §  573,  to  the  extent 
permitted by applicable law, except that the following sections shall not apply: § 41.2-3.A through 
41.2-3.C (regarding grant of franchise), § 41.2-4 (franchise applications), § 41.2-5 (filing fees), § 
41.2-7.A  (construction  schedule),  §  41.2-10  (rate  regulation),  §  41.2-14.A.1.b—through  41.2-
14.A.1.d  and  41.2-14.A.1.h  (certain  penalties),  §  41.2-14.E  (franchise  termination  due  to 
bankruptcy), and § 41.2-15 (Transfers). 

 
  

2. 

In applying this chapter to an open video system, "Franchisee" shall be taken to refer to the open 
video  system  operator,  "Cable  System"  to  the  open  video  system,  and  similar  terms  shall  apply 
similarly. 

C.  

B.  

 
Fee in lieu of franchise fee. An open video system operator shall pay to the County a fee in lieu of 
 
the  Franchise  fee  required  in  §  41.2-11  of  this  chapter,  pursuant  to  the  procedures  and  conditions  specified  in 
applicable law, including FCC regulations, § 41.2-11, and generally herein. 
 
Public, educational, and governmental access obligations. An open video system operator shall be 
 
subject to obligations pertaining to public, educational, and governmental access pursuant to applicable law and to 
the requirements herein. 
 
Right-of-way usage.  An  open  video  system  operator  shall  be  subject  to  all  requirements  of  State 
 
and local law regarding authorization to use or occupy the  Public Rights-of-Way, except to the extent specifically 
prohibited  by  federal  law.  FCC  approval  of  an  open  video  system  operator's  certification  pursuant  to  47  U.S.C.  § 
573 shall not be taken to confer upon such operator any authority to use or occupy the  Public Rights-of-Way that 
such operator would not otherwise possess.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-17. Rights of Individuals Protected. 
 
 

Discriminatory practices prohibited. 

D.  

A.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-44 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

A  Franchisee  shall  not  deny  service,  deny  access,  or  otherwise  discriminate  against  Subscribers, 
Programmers, or residents of the County on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, 
age, condition of physical handicap, creed, ethnic background, marital status or sexual orientation. 

A  Franchisee  shall  not  discriminate  among  Persons  or  the  County,  or  take  any  retaliatory  action 
against  a  Person  or  the  County  because  of  that  entity's  exercise  of  any  right  it  may  have  under 
federal, State, or local law, nor may the Franchisee require a Person or the County to waive such 
rights as a condition of taking service. 

Except as federal law prohibits enforcement of this provision, a  Franchisee shall not deny access 
or  levy  different  rates  and  charges  on  any  group  of  potential  cable  subscribers  because  of  the 
income of the residents of the local area in which such group resides. 

Subject  to  applicable  law  and  except  to  the  extent  that  a  Franchisee  is  relieved  of  such  a 
requirement, a Franchisee is prohibited from discriminating in its rates or charges or from granting 
undue  preferences  to  any  Subscriber,  potential  Subscriber,  or  group  of  Subscribers  or  potential 
Subscribers;  provided,  however,  that  a  Franchisee  may  offer  temporary,  bona  fide  promotional 
discounts  in  order  to  attract  or  maintain  Subscribers,  so  long  as  such  discounts  are  offered  on  a 
non-discriminatory basis to similar classes of Subscribers throughout the County; and a Franchisee 
may  offer  discounts  for  the  elderly,  the  handicapped,  non-for-profit  Persons  or  organizations,  or 
the  economically  disadvantaged,  and  such  other  discounts  as  it  is  expressly  entitled  to  provide 
under federal law, if such discounts are applied in a uniform and consistent manner. A Franchisee 
shall comply at all times with all applicable federal, State, and County laws, and all executive and 
administrative orders relating to non-discrimination. 

Information Accessibility: Each document required to be maintained, filed or submitted under the 
provisions of this chapter or a Certificate, except those specifically designated as confidential by a 
Franchisee  and  not  required  to  be  disclosed  by  the  County  under  applicable  law,  is  a  public 
document, available for public inspection and copying at the requestor's expense, at the office(s) 
of the Franchisee or the County during normal business hours. 

B.  

 
Equal  employment  opportunity.  A  Franchisee  shall  not  refuse  to  employ,  discharge  from 
 
employment,  or  discriminate  against  any  Person  in  compensation  or  in  terms,  conditions,  or  privileges  of 
employment because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability, or marital status. 
A  Franchisee  shall  comply  with  all  federal,  State,  and  local  laws  and  regulations  governing  equal  employment 
opportunities, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
 
 
 
  

A  Franchisee  shall  at  all  times  protect  the  privacy  rights  of  all  Subscribers,  including  but  not 
limited to those rights secured by the provisions of Section 631 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 551. 

Subscriber privacy. 

C.  

1. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Neither  a  Franchisee  nor  any  other  Person  shall  initiate  in  any  form  the  discovery  of  any 
information on or about an individual Subscriber's premises without prior valid authorization from 
the Subscriber potentially affected. This provision is  not intended to prohibit the transmission of 
signals useful only for the control or measurement of System performance. 

A  Franchisee  shall  not  permit  the  installation  of  any  special  terminal  equipment  in  any 
Subscriber's  premises  that  will  permit  transmission  from  such  Subscriber's  premises  of  two-way 
services utilizing aural, visual or digital signals without such Subscriber's prior valid authorization. 

As  used  in  this  §  41.2-17.C,  "valid  authorization"  shall  mean  written  permission  from  a 
Subscriber. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-45 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

A  Franchisee  shall  strictly  observe  and  protect  the  privacy  rights  and  property  rights  of 
Subscribers and Users at all times. Individual Subscriber preferences of any kind, viewing habits, 
political,  social  or  economic  philosophies,  beliefs,  creeds,  religions,  or  telephone  numbers  shall 
not be revealed to any person, governmental unit, police department or investigating agency unless 
upon the authority of a court of law or upon prior voluntary valid authorization of a Subscriber. 

A  Franchisee  may  release  the  number  of  its  Subscribers,  but  only  as  a  total  number  and  as  a 
percentage  of  the  potential  Subscribers  throughout  the  County  or  served  by  the  System.  When 
indicating  the  number  of  Subscribers  viewing  a  particular  Channel  at  a  particular  time,  a 
Franchisee  shall  indicate  only  the  total  number  of  Subscribers  viewing  during  the  relevant  time 
and  the  percentage  of  all  Subscribers  which  they  represent,  but  never  the  identity  of  a  particular 
Subscriber. 

A  Franchisee  may  maintain  such  information  as  is  necessary  to  bill  Subscribers  for  any  System 
service. 

No  monitoring  of  any  Subscriber  terminal  shall  take  place  without  specific  prior  valid 
authorization  by  the  Subscriber  in  question;  provided,  however,  that  a  franchisee  may  conduct 
System-wide or individually addressed "sweeps" for the purpose of verifying System integrity and 
may  take  reasonable  efforts  necessary  to  prevent  signal  theft.  In  no  event  shall  aural  or  visual 
monitoring of any kind take place without a clear indication to the Subscriber that such monitoring 
is taking place. 

A  Franchisee  shall  not  disclose  any  test  results  that  would  reveal  the  commercial  product 
preferences  or  opinions  of  individual  Subscribers,  members  or  their  families  or  their  invitees, 
licensees or employees, without a Subscriber's prior valid authorization. 

A Subscriber may at any time revoke any authorization to release information by delivering to a 
Franchisee in writing, by mail or otherwise, the Subscriber's decision to revoke the authorization. 
Any such revocation shall be effective upon receipt by the Franchisee. 

A  Franchisee  shall  not  condition  Subscriber  service  on  the  Subscriber's  valid  authorization  or 
denial of permission to collect, maintain or disclose personally identifiable information, except to 
the extent that such information is necessary for credit check or billing purposes. 

Each compilation, publication, tabulation or other dissemination of information made or permitted 
to be made in violation of this § 41.2-17.C shall be considered a separate violation.  

A.  

(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-18. Administration. 
 
Duties  of  the  Administrator.  The  Administrator,  either  directly  or  through  a  duly  appointed 
 
designee  or  designees,  shall  have  the  responsibility  for  overseeing  the  day-to-day  administration  of  this  chapter, 
Certificate,  and  related  Agreements.  The  Administrator  shall  be  empowered  to  take  all  administrative  actions  on 
behalf  of  the  County,  except  for  those  actions  specified  in  this  chapter  that  are  reserved  to  the  Board.  The 
Administrator  may  recommend  that  the  Board  take  certain  actions  with  respect  to  a  Franchise.  The  Administrator 
shall  keep  the  Board  apprised  of  developments  in  cable  and  provide  the  Board  with  assistance,  advice  and 
recommendations as appropriate. 
 
Authority of the Board. The Board shall have the sole authority to regulate rates for Cable Service; 
 
grant  Franchises;  authorize  the  entering  into  of  Certificates;  modify  Certificates;  renew  Franchises;  revoke 
Franchises; and authorize the Transfer of a Franchise. 
 
Transfer  of  authority.  If  at  any  time  the  powers  of  the  Board,  or  any  agency  or  official  of  the 
 
County or the Board are transferred by law to any other board, agency, authority or official, then such other board, 

B.  

C.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-46 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

B.  

A.  

agency, authority or official shall have the powers, rights and duties previously vested under this  chapter or by law 
in the Board, or any agency or official of the County or the Board.  
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98) 
 
§ 41.2-19. Miscellaneous Provisions. 
 
Compliance  with  laws.  Each  Franchisee  shall  comply  with  all  federal,  State,  and  local  laws  and 
 
regulations  heretofore  and  hereafter  adopted  or  established  during  the  entire  term  of  the  Franchise  granted  to  the 
Franchisee. 
 
Captions.  The  captions  and  headings  of  sections  throughout  this  chapter  are  intended  solely  to 
 
facilitate  reading  and  reference  to  the  sections  and  provisions  of  this  chapter.  Such  captions  shall  not  affect  the 
meaning or interpretation of this chapter. 
 
No recourse against the County. Without limiting such immunities as the County or other Persons 
 
may  have  under  applicable  law,  a  Franchisee  shall  have  no  recourse  against  the  County,  its  elected  or  appointed 
officials,  officers,  boards,  commissions,  commissioners,  employees  and  agents  for  any  loss,  cost,  expense,  claim, 
liability or damage arising out of any action undertaken or not undertaken by the Franchisee pursuant this chapter or 
a Franchise, whether or not such action or non-action was required by this chapter or a Franchise, arising out of the 
enforcement  or  non-enforcement  by  the  County  or  the  Board  of  any  provision  or  requirement  of  this  chapter  or  a 
Franchise, or otherwise arising out of this chapter or a Franchise. This subsection shall not preclude injunctive relief. 
 
 
 
  

The rights and remedies reserved to the Board and the County by this chapter are cumulative and 
shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other rights and remedies which the  Board or 
the County may have with respect to the subject matter of this chapter. 

Rights and remedies. 

D.  

C.  

1. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

4. 

The  County  hereby  reserves  to  itself  the  right  to  intervene  in  any  suit,  action  or  proceeding 
involving any provision of this chapter or a Certificate. 

Specific mention of the materiality of any of the provisions herein is not intended to be exclusive 
of  any  others  for  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  any  failure  of  compliance  hereunder  is 
material and substantial. 

No  Franchisee  shall  be  relieved  of  its  obligation  to  comply  with  any  of  the  provisions  of  this 
chapter or a Certificate by reason of any failure of the  County, the Board or the Administrator to 
enforce  prompt  compliance.  No  inaction  by  the  County,  the  Board  or  the  Administrator  shall  be 
deemed to waive or void any provision of this chapter or a Certificate. 

F.  

E.  

 
Amendments to this chapter. In order to fulfill the public interest goals of this chapter, to provide 
 
additional  communications  services  to  the  County  through  the  use  of  Cable  Systems,  and  thereby  to  ensure  the 
benefits  which  will  result  from  such  services,  the  Board  specifically  reserves  the  right  to  amend  this  chapter  to 
effectuate the public interest in the operation of a Cable System. 
 
Public  emergency.  In  the  event  of  a  major  public  emergency  or  disaster,  as  determined  by  the 
 
County  or  declared  by  the  Governor  of  Virginia,  a  Franchisee  shall  immediately  make  its  entire  Cable  System, 
employees,  and  property,  as  may  be  necessary,  available  for  use  by  the  County  or  any  other  civil  defense  or 
governmental agency designated by the County to operate the System for the term of such emergency or disaster for 
the emergency purposes. In the event of such use, a  Franchisee shall waive any claim that such use by the  County 
constitutes a use of eminent domain, provided that the County shall return use of the entire System, employees, and 
property to the Franchisee after the emergency or disaster has ended or has been dealt with. 
 
 
 

Connections to system; use of antennae. 

G.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-47 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                   CABLE TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS 

  

1. 

 
  

2. 

To  the  extent  consistent  with  federal  law,  Subscribers  shall  have  the  right  to  attach  devices  to  a 
Franchisee's System to allow Subscribers to transmit signals or services for which they have paid 
to  VCRs,  receivers,  and  other  terminal  equipment,  so  long  as  such  devices  do  not  interfere  with 
the  operation  of  the  Cable  System,  or  the  reception  of  any  cable  Subscriber,  nor  serve  to 
circumvent  a  Franchisee's  security  procedures,  nor  for  any  purpose  to  obtain  services  illegally. 
Subscribers also shall have the right to use their own remote control devices and  Converters, and 
other  similar  equipment,  and  a  Franchisee  shall  provide  information  to  consumers  which  will 
allow them to adjust such devices so that they may be used with the Franchisee's System. 

A  Franchisee  shall  not,  as  a  condition  of  providing  service,  require  a  Subscriber  or  potential 
Subscriber  to  remove  any  existing  antenna  or  disconnect  an  antenna,  or  prohibit  or  discourage  a 
Subscriber  from  installing  an  antenna  switch,  provided  that  such  equipment  and  installations  are 
consistent  with  applicable  codes  and  technically  able  to  shield  the  Cable  System  from  any 
interference. 

I.  

H.  

 
Calculation of time. Unless otherwise indicated, when the performance or doing of any act, duty, 
 
matter,  or  payment  is  required  under  this  chapter  or  any  Certificate,  and  a  period  of  time  or  duration  for  the 
fulfillment of doing thereof is prescribed and is fixed herein, the time shall be computed so as to exclude the first 
and include the last day of the prescribed or fixed period of duration time. 
 
Severability. If any term, condition, or provision of this chapter shall, to any extent, be held to be 
 
invalid or unenforceable by a valid order of any court or regulatory agency, the remainder hereof shall be valid in all 
other  respects  and  continue  to  be  effective.  In  the  event  of  a  subsequent  change  in  applicable  law,  so  that  the 
provision  which  had  been  held  invalid  is  no  longer  invalid,  said  provision  shall  thereupon  return  to  full  force  and 
effect without further action by the  County or the Board and shall thereafter be binding  on the Franchisee and the 
County.  
 
 
In  exercising  its  powers  pursuant  to  this  chapter,  the  Board  may  grant  Certificates  or  authorize 
renewals, extensions, modifications, or transfers of a Franchise that contain terms that vary from the requirements of 
this chapter, provided that the Board determines that such terms are in the best interests of the County or enhance the 
public health, safety or welfare. 
(Ord. No. 98-21, 6-20-98; Ord. No. 06-10, 6-13-06) 

J. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

41.2-48 

