ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

 

Chapter 56 

 

OBSCENITY 

 
 

§ 56-1. Definitions. 
§ 56-2. Obscene Items Enumerated. 
§ 56-3. Unlawful Acts. 
§ 56-4. Penalties. 
§ 56-5. Severability. 

 
 
§ 56-1. Definitions.  
 

The  following  words  and  terms,  when  used  in  this  chapter,  shall  have  the  following  meanings  unless  the 

context clearly indicates otherwise: 

 
 
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

 
“Person” means any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other legal entity. 

“Obscene” means that which, considered as a whole: 

A. 

B. 

C. 

Has as its dominant theme or purpose an appeal to the prurient interest in sex, that is, a shameful 
or  morbid  interest  in  nudity,  sexual  conduct,  sexual  excitement,  excretory  functions  or  projects 
thereof or sadomasochistic abuse; and 

Which contains patently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate sexual acts, normal 
or perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation or excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the 
genitals; and 

Which  goes  substantially  beyond  customary  limits  of  candor  in  description  or  representation  of 
such matters; and 

Which, taken as a whole, does not have serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value. 

“Distribute” means delivery in person, by mail, messenger, or by any other means by which obscene items 

“Genital” or “genital part” means the penis, genitals, pubic area, anus, perineum or vulva of any person.  

D. 

 
  
 
 
as defined in this chapter may pass from one person, firm, or corporation to another. 
 
 
(10-9-76) 
 
§ 56-2. Obscene Items Enumerated.  
 

Obscene items shall include: 
 
A. 

B. 

Any obscene book; or 

  
 
  
negative, slide, motion picture; or 
 
  
or intended to be used in disseminating any obscene song, ballad, words, or sounds.  
(10-9-76) 
 

C. 

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

56-1 

 

Any  obscene  leaflet,  pamphlet,  magazine,  booklet,  picture,  painting,  drawing,  photograph,  film, 

Any obscene figure, object, article, instrument, novelty device, or recording  or transcription used 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                             

 OBSCENITY                                                                                       

A.  

§ 56-3. Unlawful Acts. 
 
 
knowingly to: 
 
  
 
  

1. 

2. 

Production,  publication,  sale,  possession  of  obscene  items.  It  shall  be  unlawful  for  any  person 

Prepare any obscene item for the purposes of sale or distribution; or 

Print,  copy,  manufacture,  produce,  or  reproduce  any  obscene  item  for  purposes  of  sale  or 
distribution; or 

 
  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  

3. 

4. 

Publish, sell, rent, lend, transport in intrastate commerce, or distribute or exhibit any obscene item, 
or offer to do any of these things; or 

Have  in  his  possession  with  intent  to  sell,  rent,  lend,  transport,  or  distribute  any  obscene  item. 
Possession  in  public  or  in  a  public  place  of  any  obscene  item  as  defined  in  this  article  shall  be 
deemed prima facie evidence of a violation of this section. 

B.  

Obscene exhibitions and performances. It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to: 

1. 

2. 

Produce,  promote,  prepare,  present,  manage,  direct  carry  on  or  participate  in,  any  obscene 
exhibitions  or  performances,  including  the  exhibition  or  performance  of  any  obscene  motion 
picture, play, drama, show, entertainment, exposition, tableau or scene; provided that no employee 
of any person or legal entity operating a  theatre, garden, building, structure, room or place which 
presents such obscene exhibition or performance shall be subject to prosecution under this section 
if the employee is not the manager of the theatre or an officer of such entity, and has no financial 
interest in such theatre other than receiving salary and wages; 

Own, lease or manage any theatre, garden, building, structure, room or place and lease, let, lend or 
permit  such  theatre,  garden,  building,  structure,  room  or  place  to  be  used  for  the  purpose  of 
presenting such obscene exhibition or performance or to fail to post prominently therein the name 
and  address  of  a  person  resident  in  the  locality  who  is  the  manager  of  such  theatre,  garden, 
building, structure, room or place. 

C.  

D.  

 
Advertising, etc., obscene items, exhibitions or performances. It shall be unlawful for any person 
 
knowingly to prepare, print, publish or circulate, or cause to be prepared, printed, published or circulated, any notice 
or  advertisement  of  any  obscene  item  proscribed  in  Chapter  56,  or  of  any  obscene  performance  or  exhibition 
proscribed in § 56-3.B, stating or indicating where such obscene item, exhibition, or performance may be purchased, 
obtained, seen or heard. 
 
Placards,  posters,  bills,  etc.  It  shall  be  unlawful  for  any  person  knowingly  to  expose,  place, 
 
display, post up, exhibit, paint, print or mark, or cause to be exposed, placed, displayed, posted, exhibited, painted, 
printed or marked, in or on any building, structure, billboard, wall or fence, or on any street, or in or upon any public 
place,  any  placard,  poster,  banner,  bill,  writing,  or  picture  which  is  obscene,  or  which  advertises  or  promotes  any 
obscene  exhibition  or  performance  proscribed  in  §  56-3.B  or  knowingly  to  permit  the  same  to  be  displayed  on 
property belonging to or controlled by him. 
 
 
 
  

Photographs, slides, and motion pictures. It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to: 

Photograph  himself  or  any  other  person,  for  purposes  of  preparing  an  obscene  film,  photograph, 
negative, slide or motion picture for purposes of sale or distribution; or 

E.  

1. 

 
  

 
 

2. 

Model, pose, act, or otherwise assist in the preparation of any obscene film, photograph, negative, 
slide or motion picture for purposes of sale or distribution. 

F.  

Coercing acceptance of obscene articles or publications. It shall be unlawful for any person, as a 

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

56-2 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                             

 OBSCENITY                                                                                       

G.  

condition  to  any  sale,  allocation,  consignment  or  delivery  for  resale  of  any  paper,  magazine,  book,  periodical  or 
publication to require that the purchaser or consignee receive for resale any other article, book, or other publication 
which is obscene; nor shall any person deny or threaten to deny any franchise or impose or threaten to impose any 
penalty,  financial  or  otherwise,  by  reason  of  the  failure  or  refusal  of  any  person  to  accept  such  articles,  books,  or 
publications, or by reason of the return thereof. 
 
Employing  or  permitting  minor  to  assist  in  offense  under  chapter.  It  shall  be  unlawful  for  any 
 
person knowingly to hire, employ, use or permit any minor to do or assist in doing any act or thing constituting an 
offense under this chapter. 
 
 
to: 
 
  

Exceptions to application of chapter. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to apply 

The  purchase,  distribution,  exhibition,  or  loan  of  any  book,  magazine,  or  other  printed  or 
manuscript  material by any library, school, or institution of  higher learning,  supported by public 
appropriation. 

H.  

1. 

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

The  purchase,  distribution,  exhibition,  or  loan  of  any  work  of  art  by  any  museum  or  fine  arts, 
school, or institution of higher learning, supported by public appropriation. 

The  exhibition  or  performance  of  any  play,  drama,  tableau,  or  motion  picture  by  any  theatre, 
museum of fine arts, school, or institution or higher learning, supported by public appropriation.  

(10-9-76) 
 
§ 56-4. Penalties.  
 

Every person convicted of an offense violating this  Chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 1 

misdemeanor.  
(10-9-76; Ord. No. 91-34, 9-18-91) 
 
§ 56-5. Severability.  
 

Should  any  clause,  sentence,  paragraph  or part of  this  chapter  or  the  application  thereof  to  any  person  or 
circumstance, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall 
not affect, impair, or invalidate the remainder of this chapter or the application of such provisions to other persons or 
circumstances  but  shall  be  confined  in  its  application  to  the  clause,  sentence,  paragraph  or  part  thereof  directly 
involved  in  the  controversy  in  which  said  judgment  shall  have  been  rendered  and  the  person  or  circumstances 
involved.  
(10-9-76) 

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

56-3 

 

