  
 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

Chapter 67 

 

TREES AND SHRUBS 

 

__________  
* 
herein set out. 
__________  

Editor’s  Note:    Ord.  No.  02-25,  adopted  November  16,  2002,  enacted  Ch.  67,  in  its  entirety,  to  read  as 

 

 

 

 

 

Article I. General Provisions 

§ 67-1. Title. 
§ 67-2. Purpose and Intent. 
§ 67-3. Definitions. 

 

 

Article II. Regulation of Trees and Shrubs on Public Property. 

§ 67-4. Treatment of Trees and Shrubs. 
§ 67-5. Injury to or Removal of Trees and Shrubs. 

 

Article III. Regulation of Heritage Trees, Memorial Trees, Specimen Trees, and Street Trees on Public or 

Private Property. 

 

§ 67-6. Designation. 
§ 67-7. Preservation. 
§ 67-8. Penalties. 
§ 67-9. Exceptions. 

ARTICLE I. 

 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

 
§ 67-1. Title.  
 

This  chapter  shall  hereafter  be  known,  cited  and  referred  to  as  the  "Tree  Preservation  Ordinance"  of 

Arlington County, Virginia.  
(Ord. No. 02-25, 11-16-02) 
 
§ 67-2. Purpose and Intent.  
 
 
There  is  hereby  established  a  tree  preservation  ordinance  to  ensure  that  the  tree  cover  within  Arlington 
County's  boundaries  is  maintained  and  improved  in  order  to  protect  the  health,  safety,  and  welfare  of  County 
citizens and the general public, to safeguard the ecological and aesthetic environment necessary to a community, to 
preserve, protect, and enhance valuable natural resources, and to conserve properties and their values.  
(Ord. No. 02-25, 11-16-02) 
 
§ 67-3. Definitions.  
 
 
context clearly indicates otherwise:  

The  following  words  and  terms,  when  used  in  this  chapter,  shall  have  the  following  meanings  unless  the 

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

67-1 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                                          TREES AND SHRU BS                    

 
 
“Arborist”  or  “urban  forester”  means  a  person  trained  in  arboriculture,  forestry,  landscape  architecture, 
horticulture,  or  related  fields  and  experienced  in  the  conservation  and  preservation  of  native  and  ornamental  trees 
who is in the employ of or under contract to Arlington County.  

 
“County Manager” means the County Manager of Arlington County or the County Manager's designee.  
 
 
“Destroy” means to cut down a tree or shrub or perpetrate any intentional or negligent act which will cause 
a tree or shrub to decline substantially or die within a period of two (2) years. This shall include, but not be limited 
to, damage inflicted upon the root system of a tree or shrub by the application of toxic substances, by the operation 
of equipment and vehicles, or by the change of natural grade by unapproved excavation or filling inside or on the 
dripline of a tree or shrub or damage caused by the unapproved alteration of natural physical conditions.  

 
“Dripline”  means  a  vertical  projection  to  the  ground  surface  from  the  furthest  lateral  extent  of  a  tree's  or 

shrub's canopy.  

 
“Heritage tree” means any tree that has been individually designated by the County Board to be of notable 

 
historic or cultural interest.  

 
“Memorial tree” means any tree that has been individually designated by the County Board to be a special 

 
commemorating memorial.  

 
“Shrub”  means any self-supporting,  woody, perennial plant growing  upon the earth that usually produces 

 
several branches without any distinct head and usually does not exceed ten to fifteen feet in height at maturity.  

 
“Specimen tree” means any tree that has been individually designated by the County Board to be notable by 

 
virtue of its outstanding size and quality for its particular species.  

 
“Street tree” means any tree that has been individually designated by the  County Board and that grows in 

 
the street right-of-way.  

 
 
“Tree” means any self-supporting woody plant growing upon the earth that usually produces a main stem 
or trunk or a more or less distinct and elevated head, and with many branches. It may appear to have several stems 
or trunks. A tree usually exceeds ten feet in height at maturity. In any case the County Manager or the urban forester 
or arborist designated by the  County Manager shall have the right to determine  whether  any specific  woody plant 
shall be considered a tree. Such determination shall be final and not subject to appeal.  

 
“Tree guidelines” means guidelines established or selected by the County Manager for selecting, planting, 

 
pruning, maintaining, removal, replacement, and other treatment of trees and shrubs.  

 
“Utility company” means a company engaged in the provision of electric, cable, telephone, or gas service.  
 
“Volunteer  maintenance  contractors”  means  County  citizens  who  have  agreed  in  a  current,  County-

 
approved writing to maintain trees or shrubs on County property.  
(Ord. No. 02-25,  11-16-02) 
 

ARTICLE II. 

 

REGULATION OF TREES AND SHRUBS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY 

 
§ 67-4. Treatment of Trees and Shrubs.  
 
The planting, pruning, maintaining, removal, or other treatment of trees and shrubs upon the streets, public 
 
rights-of-way, other County-owned public lands, and public vehicular or public pedestrian access easements where 
Arlington  County  is  responsible  for  the  maintenance  of  such  easement  shall  be  under  the  direction  of  the  County 

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

67-2 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                                          TREES AND SHRU BS                    

A.  

Manager. Such planting, pruning, removal, or other treatment shall be in accord  with the tree guidelines and shall 
not be performed  without the  County  Manager's approval if such planting, pruning, removal, or other treatment is 
performed  by  other  than  County  employees  or  County  contractors  or  agents.  Volunteer  Maintenance  Contractors 
shall be deemed to have the County Manager's approval for pruning and maintaining, but not removal of or injury 
to, the trees or shrubs specified in their agreement with the County. Permission is not required for routine watering 
and mulching of County-owned trees.  
(Ord. No. 02-25, 11-16-02) 
 
§ 67-5. Injury to or Removal of Trees and Shrubs. 
 
 
It  shall  be  unlawful  for  any  person,  including  any  person  employed  by  or  under  contract  to  any 
utility  company,  to  destroy,  cut  down,  girdle,  break,  bend,  wound,  or  in  any  manner  injure  or  remove  any  tree  or 
shrub  upon  any  public  right-of-way,  any  other  County-owned  public  land,  or  any  public  vehicular  or  public 
pedestrian  access  easements  where  the  County  is  responsible  for  the  maintenance  of  such  easement  without  the 
written  permission  of  the  County  Manager.  Any  person  violating  this  section  shall  be  guilty  of  a  Class  3 
misdemeanor. 
 
 
The  County  Manager  shall  not  remove  or  permit  removal  of  all  or  any  part  of  any  tree  or  shrub 
unless  the  County  Manager  has  determined  that  the  action  proposed  is  necessary  or  desirable  and  will  not  be 
contrary to any County policy or plan or ordinance for or related to trees, shrubs, plants, or other vegetation. 
 
 
The County Manager's permission under this section shall be evidenced by a writing that specifies 
the tree or shrub for which removal is permitted and the duration of the permission, except such written permissio n 
is  not  required  if  the  removal  is  performed  by  County  employees  or  County  contractors  or  County  agents.  Such 
permission shall be issued only upon the conditions that (i) the applicant for permission agrees either to replace the 
tree or shrub specified to be removed at a rate and with guaranties in accord with the tree guidelines within one (1) 
year of the date of the permission or immediately pays to the County an amount equaling the full value of the tree or 
shrub  specified  to  be  removed,  at  the  option  of  the  County  Manager,  and  (ii)  the  applicant,  in  the  event  of 
destruction of or injury to an unspecified tree or shrub, agrees to either replace such unspecified tree or shrub at a 
rate and with guaranties in accord with the tree guidelines or to pay to the County an amount equaling the full value 
of  the  unspecified  tree  or  shrub,  at  the  option  of  the  County  Manager.  The  full  value  of  a  tree  or  shrub  shall  be 
determined  by  the  County  Manager  in  accordance  with  appraisal  methods  developed  by  the  Council  of  Tree  and 
Landscape Appraisers and published by the International Society of Arboriculture in Guide for Plant Appraisal.  
(Ord. No. 02-25, 11-16-02) 
 

C.  

B.  

 

REGULATION OF HERITAGE TREES, MEMORIAL TREES, SPECIMEN TREES, AND 

STREET TREES ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY 

ARTICLE III. 

 

A.  

 
§ 67-6. Designation. 
 
 
A County urban forester or an arborist designated by the County Manager may, in accordance with 
the provisions of this article, recommend to the County Board that certain trees located within the County on public 
property or private property, excluding parcels used for a single-family dwelling unless the owner of such property 
consents to the designation of such tree, be designated by ordinance as heritage, memorial, specimen, or street Trees. 
The  County  Board  shall  hold  a  public  hearing  prior  to  so  designating  any  heritage,  memorial,  specimen,  or  street 
tree. Trees may be recommended to the urban forester or designated arborist by any person in the instance of a tree 
on public property and on private property, excluding parcels used for a single-family dwelling, and by the private 
property  owner  in  the  instance  of  a  tree  on  parcels  used  for  a  single-family  dwelling,  by  submitting  a  complete 
report  to  the  urban  forester,  designated  arborist  or  County  Manager  describing  the  tree  in  question  and  its 
significance in needing protection. 
 
 
In the case of a tree on private property the County Manager shall notify the owner of the property 
on which the tree is located by certified mail (i) as soon as practicable once the recommendation is received by the 

B.  

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

67-3 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                                          TREES AND SHRU BS                    

C.  

D.  

Urban  Forester;  and  (ii)  again  at  least  thirty  (30)  days  prior  to  the  hearing  on  the  adoption  by  ordinance  of  the 
designation of such tree. The owner may request an extension of the hearing date for up to six (6) months. 
 
 
A property owner shall not destroy a tree proposed for designation pursuant to this section pending 
final  County  Board  decision  or  a  decision  by  the  Urban  Forester  or  designated  arborist  not  to  recommend 
designation. 
 
 
In  the  event  that  the  application  of  this  article  regulating  heritage,  memorial,  specimen,  or  street 
trees results in a taking of private property for a public purpose or use, the County shall compensate by fee or other 
consideration the property owner for such taking, to the extent that such claim is recognized and compensable under 
state or federal law, and shall notify the owner of his right to seek such fee or compensation.  
(Ord. No. 02-25, 11-16-02) 
 
§ 67-7. Preservation.  
 
 
No heritage, memorial, specimen, or street tree shall be removed or damaged in any way unless the County 
Board determines that: (i) there is an overriding  need for public improvements; or (ii) a severe hardship exists for 
reasonable  use  of  a  site.  Should  the  County  Board  determine  to  permit  such  treatment,  the  County  Board  may 
require that the tree be replaced with a similar tree or trees to approximate the canopy lost, and must issue a writing 
specifying the action permitted, the tree and its location, and the findings justifying the permission. Nothing in  this 
section shall prevent the County Manager from permitting the removal of a tree in the event that an arborist or urban 
forester  determines  that  the  tree  is  dead,  has  become  the  irreversibly  diseased  or  irreversibly  damaged  by  natural 
causes, or presents a hazard to the public.  
(Ord. No. 02-25, 11-16-02) 
 
§ 67-8. Penalties.  
 
 
Any  person  or  entity  who  violates  any  provision  of  this  article  by  causing,  contributing  to,  or  permitting 
injury to or removal or destruction of a heritage, memorial, specimen, or street tree shall be subject to a civil penalty 
not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each violation.  

 
 
Civil penalties shall be imposed by the issuance of a civil summons by the County Manager. Any person or 
entity served with a summons shall have thirty (30) days in which either to pay a fine to the  Treasurer of Arlington 
County, Virginia, or to appeal the violation to the General District Court.  
(Ord. No. 02-25, 11-16-02) 
 
§ 67-9. Exceptions.  
 
 
The  provisions  of  this  article  shall  not  apply  (i)  to  work  conducted  on  federal  or  state  property;  (ii)  to 
emergency  work  to  protect  life,  limb  or  property;  (iii)  to  routine  installation,  maintenance  and  repair  of  cable  and 
wires used to provide cable television, electric, gas or telephone service; (iv) to activities with minor effects on trees, 
including  but  not  limited  to  home  gardening  and  landscaping  of  individual  homes;  and  (v)  to  commercial 
silvicultural or horticultural activities, including but  not limited to planting,  managing,  or harvesting  forest or tree 
crops.  
(Ord. No. 02-25, 11-16-02) 

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

67-4 

 

