  

 

 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

Chapter 45 

 

INOPERATIVE STATUTES AND CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION 

§ 45-1. Sunday Closing Law Inoperative. 
§ 45-2. Extension of Leases for Elderly and Disabled Persons in Conversion Cooperatives 
and Condominiums. 
§ 45-3. Relocation Expenses for Tenants Displaced by Condominium or Cooperative 
Conversion. 

 
 
§ 45-1. Sunday Closing Law Inoperative.  
 

A.  

“Elderly” means a person not less than sixty-two (62) years of age. 

“Disabled” means a person suffering from a severe, chronic physical or mental impairment which results in 

The sense of the citizens of Arlington County as established by a referendum held on November 5, 1974, is 
that  the  Sunday  closing  law  as  provided  for  by  §  18.1-363.1  of  the  Code  of  Virginia  (1950)  as  amended,  is  not 
necessary, and said law shall have no force or effect within Arlington County.  
(12-21-74) 
 
§ 45-2. Extension of Leases for Elderly and Disabled Persons in Conversion Cooperatives and 
Condominiums. 
 
Definitions. The terms used in this section respecting condominiums shall have the same meaning 
 
as  those  terms  have  when  used  in  Chapter  4.2  of  Title  55  of  the  Code  of  Virginia  and  the  terms  used  respecting 
cooperatives shall have the same meaning as is given to those in Chapter 24 of Title 55 of the Code of Virginia. The 
definitions stated therein for "elderly" and "disabled" are as follows: 
 
 
 
 
substantial functional limitations. 
 
At the time required for notice to tenants of conversion of any apartments or other dwelling units 
 
to condominium or cooperative, the developer of such conversion project shall offer leases or extensions of leases to 
elderly  and  disabled  persons  who  occupy  any  units  to  be  converted  on  the  terms  and  conditions  stated  in  the 
following paragraph C. 
 
 
The leases or extension shall be offered for up to three (3) years, (composed of one (1) year terms 
with extensions up to three (3) years at tenant's option), or such lesser period as the tenant may choose, from the date 
of  the  notice  for  the  unit  occupied  by  each  of  the  elderly  or  disabled  persons  or  a  unit  of  at  least  the  same 
approximate size,  number of  bedrooms, and overall quality. Notwithstanding  the  foregoing, the tenant  may  vacate 
upon thirty (30) days notice up to the extent of the term of the lease. The terms and conditions of the leases shall be 
as agreed upon by the lessor and lessee, provided that the rent for such apartment or unit shall not be in excess of 
reasonable  rent  for  comparable  unrenovated  units  for  the  same  time  period  in  the  same  market  area  as  such 
conversion building. 
 
 
This requirement shall not be imposed so as to require that any more than twenty percent (20%) of 
the  apartments  or  units  in  a  conversion  project  shall  be  leased  to  elderly  or  disabled  persons.  Such  leases  or 
extensions shall not be required in the case of any apartments or units which will, in the course of conversions, be 
substantially altered in physical layout, restricted exclusively to nonresidential use, or rendered legally uninhabitable 
because of renovation or rehabilitation which the declarant intends in good faith to perform. 
 

D.  

B.  

C.  

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

45-1 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        
 

 

INOPERATIVE STATUTES AND  
CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION 

E.  

Exemptions.  A  declarant  of  a  condominium  or  cooperative  conversion  shall  be  exempt  from  the 
 
requirements of this section if he is preserving a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the apartments or units in the 
conversion for occupancy by low and moderate income households for a minimum of ten (10) years. A household 
shall  qualify  as  a  "low  and  moderate  income  household"  either  under  the  definition  of  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Housing and Urban Development or under the following definition:  
 

"A  household  whose  income  does  not  exceed  eighty  percent  (80%)  of  the  median  income  for  similarly 

sized households in the Washington Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area." 

 
F.  

Effective  date.  This  section  shall  apply  to  condominium  or  cooperative  conversions  for  which 
 
application  is  made  to  the  Virginia  Real  Estate  Commission  for  an  initial  certificate  of  registration  or  subsequent 
registration on or after July 1, 1982.  
(Ord. No. 82-30, 6-28-82) 
 
§ 45-3. Relocation Expenses for Tenants Displaced by Condominium or Cooperative Conversion. 
 

A.  Definitions.    The  following  words  and  terms,  when  used  in  this  section,  shall  have  the  following 

meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 
 
 

1.  

“Conversion  condominium”  means  a  condominium  containing  structures  which,  before  the 
recording  of  the  condominium  declaration,  were  wholly  or  partially  occupied  by  persons  other 
than those who have contracted for the purchase of condominium units and those who occupy with 
the consent of such purchasers. 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

2.  

“Conversion cooperative” means a building that at any time before creation of the cooperative was 
occupied  wholly  or  partially  by  persons  other  than  purchasers  and  persons  who  occupy  with  the 
consent of purchasers. 

3.  

“Declarant” means any or all person(s) acting in concert who: 

 

a.  

Offer to dispose of his or its interest in a condominium unit not previously disposed of, in 
the case of a condominium, or who, in the case of a cooperative, as a part of a common 
promotional  plan,  offer  to  dispose  of  his  or  its  cooperative  interest  not  previously 
disposed of; 

b.  

c.  

Reserves or succeeds to any special declarant right; or 

Applies  for registration of the condominium under the Condominium  Act or applies for 
registration of a cooperative under the Virginia Real Estate Cooperative Act, as the case 
may be. 

4.  

“Tenant” means a person or persons entitled under a rental agreement to occupy a dwelling unit to 
the  exclusion  of  others.    All  persons  who  occupy  the  same  dwelling  unit  are  considered  to  be  a 
single tenant for purposes of this section. 

5.  

B.  

“County Manager” means the County Manager of Arlington County, or any of his designees. 

 
 
 
 
The declarant shall reimburse any tenant displaced by a condominium or cooperative conversion 
for amounts actually expended to relocate as a result of such dislocation. Such reimbursement shall not exceed the 
amount  provided  for  in  §  25-239(b)  of  the  Code  of  Virginia,  which  as  of  July,  1982  is  five  hundred  dollars 
($500.00). With the tenant's agreement, a payment may be made based on other than actual expenses. 
 
The monetary limits provided for in paragraph B above shall be automatically adjusted to conform 
 
to  future  revisions  of  corresponding  monetary  benefits  under  the  federal  Uniform  Relocation  Assistance  and  Real 
Property  Acquisition  Policies  Act  of  1970  (Public  Law  91-646)  as  provided  for  in  §  25.1-415  of  the  Code  of 

C.  

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

45-2 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                        
 

 

INOPERATIVE STATUTES AND  
CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION 

D.  

Virginia. 
 
 
Reimbursable expenses shall  include, by  way of  illustration but  not limitation, items  such as the 
following: deposits and connection fees for telephones and utilities; the cost of packing, transporting and unpacking; 
insurance coverage on goods transported during the move. 
 
 
condominium or cooperative conversion" within the meaning of subsection B above: 
 
  

For  purposes  of  this  section  a  tenant  shall  not  be  deemed  to  have  been  "displaced  by  a 

Unless  and  until  the  said  tenant  has  first  been  given  a  notice  to  vacate  in  accordance  with  the 
Virginia Condominium Act or Virginia Real Estate Cooperative Act, and in fact, vacates his unit 
in accordance with the time set forth in said notice (or subsequent notice); 

E.  

1. 

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

If the declarant, at declarant's expense, relocates said tenant to another apartment or unit with the 
tenant's consent; 

If the declarant has, prior to the time of lease execution, notified tenant that the apartment or unit 
he is about to rent is or is about to be converted and tenant waives relocation assistance benefits. 
Any  such  waiver  in  order  to  be  effective,  must  be  in  writing  and  must  be  typed  or  printed  in  a 
conspicuous manner on a separate sheet of paper and separately signed or initialed by tenant and 
appended  to  the  lease  or  rental  agreement.  A  copy  of  the  waiver  and  attacked  lease  is  to  be 
provided to tenant. 

F.  

The County Manager shall be responsible for the administration of this section. 

 
 
 
Effective date. Tenants who receive a notice to vacate issued in accordance with Chapter 4.2 (the 
 
Condominium Act) or Chapter 24 (the Virginia Real Estate Cooperative Act) of the Code of Virginia on or after July 
1, 1982, shall be entitled to the benefits provided in this section.  
(Ord. No. 82-29, 6-28-82) 

G.  

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

45-3 

 

