  

 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

Chapter 50 

 

CONSUMER PROTECTION 

 
§ 50-1. General Policy. 
§ 50-2. Powers of the Office of Consumer Protection. 
§ 50-3. Referral of Complaints. 

 
 
§ 50-1. General Policy.  
 

There  is  hereby  created  the  Office  of  Consumer  Affairs  of  Arlington  County.  The  staffing  and 

organizational structure of such Office shall be as determined by the County Manager.  
(10-26-74) 
 
§ 50-2. Powers of the Office of Consumer Protection.  
 

B. 

The Office shall have such powers as may be necessary to perform the following duties. 
 
A. 

To attempt to resolve complaints received pursuant to subsection A hereof by means of voluntary 

  
To  serve  as  a  central  coordinating  agency  and  clearing  house  for  receiving  and  investigating 
complaints  of  illegal,  fraudulent,  deceptive  or  dangerous  practices,  and  referring  such  complaints  to  the  local 
departments  or  agencies  charged  with  enforcement  of  consumer  laws.  The  processing  of  complaints  involving 
statutes or regulations administered by state agencies shall be coordinated, where applicable, with the State Office of 
Consumer Affairs; 
 
  
mediation or arbitration; 
 
  
 
  
To maintain records of consumer complaints and their eventual disposition provided that records 
disclosing  the business interests of any person, trade secrets, or the  names of customers shall be held confidential 
except  to  the  extent  that  disclosures  of  such  matters  may  be  necessary  for  the  enforcement  of  laws.  A  copy  of  all 
periodic reports compiled by the Office shall be filed with the State Office of Consumer Affairs; 
 
E. 
  
(10-26-74) 
 
§ 50-3. Referral of Complaints.  
 

To provide staff support for the Arlington County Consumer Protection Commission.  

To develop programs of community consumer education and information; 

D. 

C. 

The Office may refer complaints which appear to violate any provision of Article 8, Chapter 6 of Title 18.2 
of  the  Code  of  Virginia  of  1950,  as  amended,  of  Chapter  2.1  of  Title  59.1  of  the  Code  of  Virginia  of  1950,  as 
amended,  to  the  Commonwealth's  Attorney  or  to  the  County  Attorney  for  investigation.  If  the  official  to  whom  a 
complaint  is referred determines that a violation is, in fact, occurring,  he  shall bring an  action pursuant to  § 59.1-
68.4 of the Code of Virginia to enjoin such violation. The Office will report any such action in summary form on a 
monthly basis to the Consumer Protection Commission.  
(10-26-74; Ord. No. 91-24, 6-22-91) 

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

50-1 

 

