  

 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

 

Chapter 19 

 

PROPERTY SEIZED BY POLICE 

§ 19-1. Immediate Delivery of Seized Property to Chief of Police; Exception. 
§ 19-2. Disposition Proceedings--Generally. 
§ 19-3. Same--Posting of Notice of Sale. 
§ 19-4. Same--Sale Proceeds. 

 
 
§ 19-1. Immediate Delivery of Seized Property to Chief of Police; Exception.  
 

A.  

It shall be the duty of all officers and members of the  Police Division into whose possession any property 
seized, taken or found shall come, to deliver the same at once to the Chief of Police, or a person designated by him, 
unless it is wanted for immediate use as evidence in any case, and in that event a report and inventory of the same 
shall be forwarded at once to the Chief of Police.  
(11-7-52) 
 
§ 19-2. Disposition Proceedings--Generally. 
 
 
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to keep or cause to be kept a record of all property which 
may  be  seized  or  otherwise  taken  possession  of  by  the  Police  Department  of  the  County;  and  if  such  property,  so 
seized or taken possession of shall not be claimed by the rightful owner thereof and possession surrendered to such 
owner within sixty (60) days from the date of the final disposition of the court proceedings in connection with which 
such property  was  seized or otherwise taken possession of, or in case there are  no court proceedings, then if such 
property  so  seized  or  taken  possession  of  shall  not  be  claimed  by  the  rightful  owner  thereof  and  possession 
surrendered to such owner within sixty (60) days from the date of such seizure or taking by the police, the Chief of 
Police shall publish, or cause to be published, in a newspaper of the County, a description of such property, with the 
date  of  seizure,  or  the  taking  possession  thereof,  and  shall  give  notice  that  if  such  property  is  not  claimed  by  the 
rightful owner within ten (10) days from the date of such publishing, such property will be sold at public auction at 
such place and time as the Chief of Police may direct and in such a manner as to expose to the inspection of bidders 
all property so offered for sale; provided, that all such unclaimed property, if deemed by the Chief of Police to be of 
use to the Police Department, may be retained for the use of the Department and a record of same shall be filed with 
the property officer. 
 
If any property seized or taken possession of by the Police Force shall be of a perishable nature, or 
 
so bulky or of such nature as to make it dangerous or inadvisable to retain possession thereof for the length of time 
specified in the preceding paragraph, upon a certificate of such fact by the Chief of Police, setting forth his reasons 
why such property should not be retained for the period fixed in the preceding paragraph before selling the same, the 
Chief of Police shall cause such property to be sold at public auction at any time deemed advisable by the  Chief of 
Police. 
 
 
Nothing  in  this  chapter  shall  be  held  to  require  the  Chief  of  Police  to  take  possession  of,  or  to 
make disposition of, any lost or stolen property, the disposition or possession of which is otherwise provided for by 
law,  and  none  of  the  provisions  of  this  chapter  shall  apply  to  pistols,  revolvers,  derringers,  bowie  knives,  dirks, 
slingshots, metallic knuckles or other deadly weapons of like character, but all such weapons shall be disposed of as 
required by § 15.2-1721 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended.  
(11-7-52; Ord. No. 90-18, 7-1-90) 
 
§ 19-3. Same--Posting of Notice of Sale.  
 

B.  

C.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

19-1 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                                      PROPERTY SEIZED BY POLICE  

In addition to the publication of notice provided for in the preceding  section, the Chief of Police shall post 
or cause to be posted in at least three (3) public places in the County where public notices are commonly or usually 
posted, a copy of such notice published in the newspaper, and shall make a record of the date when such publication 
and the posting of notices are made, and if, within ten (10) days from the date of such publication and posting, no 
claim for such property described in such notices shall have been made by the rightful owner thereof, the  Chief of 
Police shall proceed to sell such property at public auction, or put it to use by the Police Department as described in 
the preceding section.  
(11-7-52; Ord. No. 90-18, 7-1-90) 
 
§ 19-4. Same--Sale Proceeds.  
 

The  proceeds  of  any  sale  made  as  provided  in  §  19-2  of  this  Code,  after  deducting  the  cost  of  storage, 
advertising,  selling  and  other  expenses,  incident  to  the  handling  or  selling  of  such  property,  shall  be  paid  by  the 
Chief of Police into the treasury of the County Police and Firemen's Pension Fund.  
(11-7-52) 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

19-2 

