  

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

Chapter 29 

 

BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS* 

__________  
* 
Editors Note: Ordinance No. 86-28, adopted Oct. 18, 1986, amended and reenacted Ch. 29 in its entirety to 
read as herein set  forth. Prior to such amendment, Ch. 29 consisted of §§ 29-1--29-16 which pertained to housing 
standards  and  derived  from  legislation  of  Jan.  1,  1972;  March  22,  1972;  May  31,  1977;  July  10,  1979;  and  Dec. 
13,1980; and Ord. No. 82-42, enacted Dec. 4, 1982. 
__________  
 
 

Article I. In General 

 

§ 29-1. Short Title. 
§ 29-2. Definitions. 
§ 29-3. Adoption. 
§ 29-4. Requirement for Occupancy or Lease. 
§ 29-5. Removal of Equipment or Appurtenances. 
§ 29-6. Minimum Standards for Locks and Window Latches. 
§ 29-7. Inspections; Powers and Duties of the County Manager. 
§ 29-8. Energy Shortage Emergencies. 
§ 29-9. Reserved. 

 

Article II. Declaration of Blight 

 

§ 29-10. Purpose. 
§ 29-11. Blight Abatement Authorized. 
§ 29-12. Blighted Property Defined. 
§ 29-13. Procedures for Declaring Blight; Notification of Owner, Public Hearing. 
§ 29-14. Occupied for Residential Purposes. 
§ 29-15. Declaration of Nuisance. 
§ 29-16. Provisions Cumulative. 

 

 
§ 29-1. Short Title.  
 

ARTICLE I. 

 

IN GENERAL 

This  chapter  shall  be  known  and  may  be  cited  as  the  "Building  Maintenance  Standards  Chapter  of 

Arlington County, Virginia."  
(Ord. No. 86-28, 10-18-86) 
 
§ 29-2. Definitions.  
 

For the purpose of this chapter, the words "used for" include "designed for," and vice-versa; words used in 
the  present  tense  include  the  future;  words  in  the  singular  number  include  the  plural  number  and  vice-versa;  the 
word  "building"  includes  the  word  "structure";  the  word  "dwelling"  includes  the  word  "residence";  and  the  word 
"lot"  includes  the  word  "plot";  the  word  "shall"  is  mandatory  and  not  directory;  "premises"  shall  mean  lot  and 
"appurtenances  thereon";  and  the  words  "dwelling," "dwelling  unit," "rooming  house,"  and  "premises,"  when  they 
are  used  in  this  chapter,  shall  be  construed  as  though  they  were  followed  by  the  words  "or  any  part  thereof";  the 
following words and terms shall have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

29-1 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                      BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS 

 

 

 

“County Manager” means the County Manager of Arlington County, or any of his designees. 

“Reasonable hours” means the time of day between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. 

“Code  Official”  means  the  County  Manager  or  his  designee  who  shall  be  responsible  for  the 
enforcement of  Volume II, Building  Maintenance  Code, relating to  health and sanitary  matters,  heat, 
hot  water,  security  locks,  air  conditioning,  painting,  and  maintenance  and  care  of  buildings  and 
structures. The Building Official shall be the Code Official who is responsible for technical decisions 
for  building,  electrical,  plumbing,  and  mechanical  systems  and  equipment;  unsafe  structures;  and 
annual  inspection  of  elevators,  boilers  and  the  five-year  electrical  preventive  maintenance  program. 
The  Building  Official  and  Fire  Marshal  shall  be  responsible  for  annual  full  Code  inspections  of 
commercial and highrise buildings. The  Fire Marshal shall be the person responsible for enforcement 
of the Fire Prevention Code.  

B.  

A.  

Copies of said  Code are on  file in the  Community  Inspections  Offices and  may be  viewed there 

Editors  Note:  Ord. No. 91-6, adopted Mar. 16, 1991, amended this  chapter by adding a new  § 29-3 and 

(Ord. No. 86-28, 10-18-86) 
 
§ 29-3. Adoption. 
 
 
There  is  hereby  adopted  the  Virginia  Uniform  Statewide  Building  Code,  Volume  II,  Building 
Maintenance Code/current edition. The enforcement of this Code shall be carried out in the manner described in  § 
29-7. 
 
 
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on regular business days.  
(Ord. No. 91-6, 3-16-91; Ord. No. 93-25, 12-14-93) 
 
renumbering former §§ 29-3--29-7 as §§ 29-4--29-8. 
 
§ 29-4. Requirement for Occupancy or Lease. 
 
 
No owner or other person shall occupy or lease  to another person any dwelling or dwelling  unit 
unless it and the premises comply with the requirements of this chapter and all other applicable laws and regulations 
of Arlington County and the Commonwealth of Virginia. 
 
 
of this chapter.  
(Ord. No. 86-28, 10-18-86) 
 
 
§ 29-5. Removal of Equipment or Appurtenances.  
 

Note: See the editor’s note following § 29-3. 
 

Unless otherwise specified, the owner  shall be responsible  for compliance  with  the requirements 

A.  

B.  

Note: See the editor’s note following § 29-3. 
 

No  owner  or  occupant  shall  alter  the  physical  design  of  a  building  or  remove  permanently  installed 
equipment  or  appurtenances  in  order  to  avoid  effecting  compliance  with  this  chapter  by  eliminating  the  need  to 
repair the altered or removed parts.  
(Ord. No. 86-28, 10-18-86) 
 
 
§ 29-6. Minimum Standards for Locks and Window Latches. 
 
 
No person shall lease to another, for occupancy, any dwelling unit in a multiple dwelling building 
unless all exterior doors, other than balcony doors two (2) or more stories above the grade of the dwelling unit, are 
equipped with a vertical bolt, deadlocks or deadbolts with not less than five-eighths (5/8) inch minimum throw. In 
addition,  the  lock  on  the  main  entrance  door  in  each  of  these  dwelling  units  shall  be  capable  of  being  locked  or 
unlocked  by  key  from  the  outside  and  by  turn-knob  from  the  inside.  Alternate  devices  providing  at  least  equal 
security may be substituted subject to prior approval by the  County Manager. In addition, provisions will be made 

A.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

29-2 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                      BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS 

for visual detection to permit inspection before allowing entry. Exterior doors to all individual apartment units which 
are one (1) story or less above grade shall be provided with operative security devices determined to be adequate by 
the  County  Manager.  Window  latches  shall  be  provided  on  windows  which  are  less  than  ten  (10)  feet  from  the 
adjoining ground level, or otherwise accessible from the outside. 
 
  

Lock cylinders for entry doors to individual units in multiple dwelling buildings shall be changed 
or re-keyed whenever a tenant vacates the premises and whenever a tenant or the landlord loses a 
key.  The  landlord  may  charge  the  tenant  for  costs  incurred  in  replacing  or  re-keying  the  lock 
cylinder due to the loss of a key by a tenant. 

1. 

 
  

2. 

Lock cylinders on doors to common areas in  multiple dwelling buildings such as laundry rooms 
and storage facilities shall be changed or re-keyed a minimum of once every three (3) years. 

C.  

B.  

B.  

A.  

Note: See the editor’s note following § 29-3. 

Owners  who  lease  to  another,  for  occupancy,  any  dwelling  unit  in  a  multiple  dwelling  building 

 
 
shall comply with the provisions of § 29-5 within one (1) year from the effective date of this chapter. 
 
 
No  person  shall  lease  to  another,  for  occupancy,  any  dwelling  containing  less  than  three  (3) 
dwelling  units  unless  all  exterior  doors  are  equipped  with  operative  latching  or  locking  devices.  Window  latches 
shall  be  provided  on  windows  which  are  less  than  ten  (10)  feet  from  the  adjoining  ground  level,  or  are  otherwise 
accessible from the outside.  
(Ord. No. 86-28, 10-18-86) 
 
 
§ 29-7. Inspections; Powers and Duties of the County Manager. 
 
 
The  County  Manager  or  his  designee  shall  enforce  the  provisions  of  this  chapter  and  is  hereby 
authorized and directed to make inspections in response to a complaint that an alleged violation of the provisions of 
this  chapter  or  of  applicable  rules  or  regulations  pursuant  thereto  may  exist,  as  part  of  a  systematic  inspection 
program  of  the  area,  or  when  he  has  valid  reason  to  believe  that  a  violation  of  this  chapter  has  been  or  is  being 
committed. 
 
 
The County Manager or his designee shall have authority with the consent of the owner or tenant 
to  enter  and  inspect  all  dwellings  and  dwelling  units,  subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  chapter  for  the  purpose  of 
determining whether there is compliance with its requirements. 
 
If  any  owner,  occupant  or  other  person  in  charge  of  a  building  or  of  a  multiple  dwelling  or  a 
 
rooming house, fails or refuses to permit free access and entry to the structure or premises under his control, or any 
part  thereof,  with  respect  to  which  an  inspection  authorized  by  this  chapter  is  sought  to  be  made,  the  County 
Manager  may,  upon  a  showing  that  probable  cause  exists  for  the  inspection,  petition  and  obtain  an  order  from  a 
court of competent jurisdiction authorizing such inspection. 
 
 
Every occupant of a building or building unit or premises shall give the owner thereof, or his agent 
or employee, access to any part of such building, or its premises, at any reasonable hours for the purpose of making 
such  repairs  and  alterations  as  are  necessary  to  effect  compliance  with  any  lawful  order  issued  pursuant  to  the 
provisions of this chapter. 
 
 
The  County  Manager  or  his  designee  may  declare  a  public  emergency  when  a  public  nuisance, 
dangerous, unsafe, or unsanitary conditions exist in any building and present an imminent and immediate threat to 
life or property, and may order the County to abate or remove the conditions or to raze the building. 
 
 
 
  

Authority to require removal or repair of unsafe buildings and structures and recovery of costs. 

The owner of property shall at such time or times as the Building Official may prescribe, remove, 
repair, or secure any building, wall, or any other structure which might endanger the public health 
or  safety  of  other  residents.  The  Building  Official,  through  its  own  agents  or  employees,  may 

D.  

C.  

E.  

F.  

1. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

29-3 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                      BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS 

 
  

 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

4. 

remove,  repair,  or  secure  any  building,  wall,  or  any  other  structure  which  might  endanger  the 
public  health  or  safety  of  other  residents  and  the  County,  when  the  owner  and  lien  holders  of 
property, after reasonable notice and a reasonable time to do so, have failed to remove, repair, or 
secure said building, wall, or other structure. 

In  the  event  the  County,  through  its  own  agents  or  employees,  removes,  repairs,  or  secures  any 
building,  wall,  or  any  other  structure  after  complying  with  the  notice  provisions  of  the  Virginia 
Uniform Statewide Building Code, Building Maintenance Code, the cost or expenses thereof shall 
be chargeable to and paid by the owners of such property and may be collected by the  County as 
taxes and levies are collected. 

Every  charge  authorized  by  this  section  with  which  the  owner  of  any  such  property  shall  have 
been assessed and which remains unpaid shall constitute a lien against such property ranking on a 
parity with liens for unpaid local taxes and enforceable in the same manner as provided in Articles 
3 and 4 of Chapter 39 of Title 58.1 of the Code of Virginia. 

If a public nuisance presents an imminent and immediate threat to life or property, then the County 
may  abate,  raze,  or  remove  such  public  nuisance  and  recover  from  the  responsible  party  the 
necessary  costs  incurred  for  the  provision  of  public  emergency  services  reasonably  required  to 
abate any such public nuisance. 

A.  

G.  

Note: See the editor’s note following § 29-3. 

 
 
The term "nuisance" shall include, but not be limited to, dangerous or unhealthy substances which 
have escaped, spilled, been released, or which have been allowed to accumulate in or on any place, and all unsafe, 
dangerous, or unsanitary public or private buildings, walls, or structure which constitute a menace to the health and 
safety of the occupants thereof or the public. The term "responsible party" shall include, but not be limited to, the 
owner, occupier, or possessor of the premises where the nuisance is located, the owner or agent of the owner of the 
material  which  escaped,  spilled,  or  was  released,  and  the  owner  or  agent  of  the  owner  who  was  transporting  or 
otherwise responsible for such material and whose acts or negligence caused such public nuisance.  
(Ord. No. 86-28, 10-18-86; Ord. No. 90-26, 8-11-90; Ord. No. 93-25, 12-14-93) 
 
 
§ 29-8. Energy Shortage Emergencies. 
 
 
Whenever appropriate federal or state authorities, pursuant to lawful authority, declare an energy 
emergency and prescribe mandatory thermal standards which conflict with the minimal thermal standards set forth 
in this chapter, the County Manager shall forthwith suspend those provisions of this chapter and prescribe standards 
consistent  with  federal  and  state  requirements.  Such  suspension  shall  not  extend  beyond  the  date  on  which  such 
federal or state standards are modified or terminated. 
 
Whenever,  in  the  judgment  of  the  County  Manager,  an  energy  shortage  emergency  exists  which 
 
requires temporary suspension of the minimal thermal standards set forth in this  chapter, the County Manager may 
by order, following public  hearing, prescribe emergency  minimum  thermal standards to  supersede those  standards 
set  forth  in  this  chapter.  The  County  Manager  shall  state,  and  report  to  the  County  Board,  the  reasons  for  such 
suspension, which shall not extend beyond sixty (60) days from the date on  which the order is issued. The County 
Manager  may  revoke  the  suspension  at  any  time.  Any  renewal  of  a  suspension  beyond  the  sixty  (60)  day  period 
above  shall  be  made  only  in  accordance  with  the  foregoing  procedures.  The  County  Manager  shall  revoke  a 
suspension at such time as he determines that the suspension is no longer necessary. 
 
Whenever,  in  the  judgment  of  the  County  Manager,  an  energy  shortage  emergency  exists  which 
 
requires  immediate  action  to  protect  the  public  health,  safety  or  welfare,  the  County  Manager  shall  prescribe 
emergency  minimum thermal standards to supersede those standards set forth in this  chapter. Such standards shall 
remain  in  effect  for  a  period  not  to  exceed  fifteen  (15)  days  unless  prior  to  the  expiration  of  the  fifteen  (15)  day 
period the requirements of subsection B have been satisfied.  
(1-1-72) 
 

Note: See the editor’s note following § 29-3. 

B.  

C.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

29-4 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                      BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS 

Sec. 29-9. Reserved. 

 
§ 29-10. Purpose.  
 

 

 

ARTICLE II. 

 

DECLARATION OF BLIGHT 

The  County  Board  of  Arlington  County  hereby  finds  that  deteriorating  properties,  including  the 
improvements and the land on which they are built, have a deleterious effect on property values and the quality of 
life in the area surrounding them. This spot blight threatens the health, safety, morals and welfare of the community.  
(Ord. No. 03-21, 9-13-03) 
 
§ 29-11. Blight Abatement Authorized.  
 

A.  

The County may acquire or repair any blighted property, as defined in § 29-12, by exercise of the powers of 
eminent  domain  and  further,  shall  have  the  power  to  hold,  clear,  repair,  manage  or  dispose  of  such  property  for 
purposes consistent with this article. In addition, the County may recover the costs of any repair or disposal of such 
property from the owner and until recovered, such costs shall constitute a lien upon the property.  
(Ord. No. 03-21, 9-13-03) 
 
§ 29-12. Blighted Property Defined. 
 
 
To  be  blighted  a  property  must  have  a  building  or  improvement  that  by  reason  of  dilapidation, 
overcrowding,  lack  of  ventilation,  light  and  sanitary  facilities  or  any  combination  of  these  or  other  factors,  is 
detrimental  to  the  safety,  health,  morals  or  welfare  of  the  community.  In  addition,  any  property  that  has  been 
determined by the Arlington County Code Official to meet the definition of unsafe building shall also be blighted. 
 
 
may consider any pertinent factors including by way of illustration and not limitation the following: 
 
  

In  determining  whether  a  property  meets  the  definition  of  blighted  set  forth  above,  the  County 

“Condemned structure” means a structure on the property that has been continuously vacant for at 
least  one  year,  has  been  condemned  as  unfit  for  human  occupancy  by  the  Building  Official  in 
accordance with the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code, but has neither been demolished 
nor repaired by the owner as directed by the Building Official; 

B.  

1. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 

2. 

3. 

“Rat  and  rodent  infestation”  means  there  is  evidence  of  rat  or  rodent  infestation  or  harborages 
caused by conditions on the property; 

“Previous  citations”  means  the  property  has  been  used  or  maintained  in  a  condition  which  has 
resulted in the following actions: 

a. 

b. 

The  owner  has  been  cited  on  a  least  three  (3)  separate  occasions  because  activities  or 
conditions on the property violate State or County laws or ordinances governing the use 
or maintenance of property, and those activities or conditions threaten the public health, 
safety and welfare of the community; or 

The  owner  has  refused  to  abate  one  or  more  violations  as  ordered  by  the  court  or  has 
repeated conduct involving the use or maintenance of property for  which the owner has 
been convicted of violating State laws or County ordinances in the past. 

4. 

“Inadequate  facilities”  means  the  property  has  inadequate  sewage  septic,  plumbing,  well  or 
heating facilities; 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

29-5 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                      BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS 

  

 
  

 
  

 
  
 
  

 
  

5. 

6. 

7. 

“Potential  trespass”  means,  if  the  property  is  vacant,  the  owner  has  failed  to  take  adequate 
precautions to prevent the use of or access to the property by trespassers; 

“Nuisance  to  children”  means  a  potential  attractive  nuisance  to  children  exists  on  the  property, 
including, but not limited to, abandoned wells, basements, excavations or broken fences; 

“Fire hazard” means any condition exists on the property that has been specifically identified as a 
fire hazard by the Fire Department or the Building Official; and 

8. 

“Substantial dilapidation of buildings or structures” as evidenced by either: 

a. 

b. 

Collapse  of  either  interior  or  exterior  structural  elements  such  as  floors,  walls,  roofs, 
porches, decks and similar appendages which do not pose a danger to the public; or 

Removal or rotting of exterior siding, roofing or sheathing exposing structural members 
to the weather.  

C.  

B.  

A.  

(Ord. No. 03-21, 9-13-03) 
 
§ 29-13. Procedures for Declaring Blight; Notification of Owner, Public Hearing. 
 
 
The  County  Manager  or  his  designee  shall  make  a  preliminary  determination  that  a  property  is 
blighted in accordance with § 29-12 and shall notify the owner by regular and certified mail, specifying the reasons 
why the property is considered blighted. The notice mailed to the owner also shall be posted on the property. The 
owner shall have thirty (30) days within which to respond with a plan that would cure the blight within a reasonable 
time. Such plan shall include a site plan delineating blighted condition(s) and specifying measures to be taken for the 
removal of each. 
 
 
Upon approval by the County Manager of the plan to cure blight the owner shall have ninety (90) 
days  to  complete  all  work  approved  in  the  plan.  The  County  Manager,  or  his  designee,  upon  acceptance  of  a 
performance bond in the amount of the estimated cost of the work, may grant extensions of time to complete work 
where the County Manager determines that the owner has completed substantial portions of the work in compliance 
with the plan and is diligently pursuing completion of all work. 
 
 
If the owner fails to respond within the thirty (30) day period set forth in § 29-13.A  with a plan 
that is acceptable to the County Manager or his designee, or fails to complete the work approved in the plan to cure 
blight and has not been granted an extension of time to complete such, the County Manager or his designee may: (i) 
request the Planning Commission to conduct a public hearing and make findings and recommendations that shall be 
reported  to  the  County  Board  concerning  the  repair  or  other  disposition  of  the  property  in  question,  and  (ii)  if  a 
public hearing is scheduled, shall prepare a plan for the repair or other disposition of the property. 
 
 
Not less than three weeks prior to the date of the public hearing before the Planning Commission, 
the Commission shall provide, by regular and certified mail, notice of such hearing to: (i) the owner of the blighted 
property or the agent designated by him for receipt of service of notices concerning the payment of real estate taxes 
on  the  property;  (ii)  the  abutting  property  owners  in  each  direction,  including  those  property  owners  immediately 
across  the  street  or  road  from  the  property;  and  (iii)  the  representative  neighborhood  association,  if  any  for  the 
immediate area. The notice shall include a description of the plan for the intended repair or other disposition of the 
property. The notice of the public hearing shall be published at least twice, with not less than six (6) days elapsing 
between the first and second publication, in a newspaper published or having general circulation in the County. The 
notice  also  shall  be  posted  on  the  property.  The  notice  shall  specify  the  time  and  place  of  the  hearing  at  which 
persons affected may appear and present their views, not less than six (6) days nor more than twenty-one (21) days 
after the second publication. 
 
 
 
  

The Planning Commission shall determine whether: 

The property is blighted; 

D.  

E.  

1. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

29-6 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                                      BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS 

 
  
 
  

 
  

2. 

3. 

4. 

The owner has failed to cure the blight or present a reasonable plan to do so; 

The  plan  for  the  repair  or  other  disposition  of  the  property  is  in  accordance  with  the  County's 
comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, and other applicable land use regulations; and 

The  property  is  located  within  an  area  listed  on  the  National  Register  of  Historic  Places,  or  is 
located in an area designated an historic district, or is a designated landmark pursuant to 31A of 
the Arlington County Zoning Ordinance. In such instances, the Planning Commission shall consult 
with  the  Historical  Affairs  Landmark  Review  Board  regarding  the  proposed  repair  or  other 
disposition of the property. 

F.  

 
 
The Planning Commission shall report its findings and recommendations concerning the property 
to  the  County  Board.  The  County  Board,  upon  receipt  of  such  findings  and  recommendations  may,  after  an 
advertised public hearing, affirm, modify, or reject the Planning Commission's findings and recommendations. If the 
repair  or  other  disposition  of  the  property  is  approved,  the  County  may  carry  out  the  approved  plan  to  repair  or 
acquire  and  dispose  of  the  property  in  accordance  with  the  approved  plan,  the  provisions  of  this  article  and 
applicable  law.  The  County  shall  have  a  lien  on  all  property  so  repaired  or  acquired  under  an  approved  plan  to 
recover  the  cost  of  (i)  improvements  made  by  the  County  to  bring  the  blighted  property  into  compliance  with 
applicable building codes and (ii) disposal, if any. The lien authorized by this subsection shall be filed in the Circuit 
Court  and  shall  be  subordinate  to  any  prior  liens  of  record.  The  County  may  recover  its  costs  of  repair  from  the 
owner of record of the property when the repairs were made at such time as the property is sold or disposed of by 
such  owner.  If  the  property  is  acquired  through  eminent  domain,  the  cost  of  repair  may  be  recovered  when  the 
County sells or disposes of the property. In either case, the costs of repair shall be recovered from the proceeds of 
any such sale.  
(Ord. No. 03-21, 9-13-03) 
 
§ 29-14. Occupied for Residential Purposes.  
 

Unless otherwise provided for in Title 36 of the Code of Virginia, if the blighted  property is occupied for 
personal residential purposes, the County, in approving the plan, shall not allow for an acquisition of such property 
if it would result in a displacement of the person or persons living in the premises. The provisions of this subsection 
shall not apply to acquisitions, under an approved plan, by the  Bounty of property which has been condemned for 
human habitation for more than one (1) year. In addition, the County in exercising the powers of eminent domain in 
accordance with Title 25 of the Code of Virginia, may provide for temporary relocation of any person living in the 
blighted property provided the relocation is within the financial means of such person.  
(Ord. No. 03-21, 9-13-03) 
 
§ 29-15. Declaration of Nuisance.  
 

In lieu of  the acquisition of blighted property by the exercise of the powers of eminent  domain as  herein 
provided  and  in  lieu  of  the  exercise  of  other  powers  granted  in  §  29-11,  the  County  Board,  by  ordinance,  may 
declare any blighted property to constitute a nuisance and thereupon abate the nuisance pursuant to State law. Such 
ordinance  shall  be  adopted  only  after  written  notice  by  certified  mail  to  the  owner  or  owners  at  the  last  known 
address of such owner as shown on the current real estate tax assessment books or current real estate tax assessment 
records.  
(Ord. No. 03-21, 9-13-03) 
 
§ 29-16. Provisions Cumulative.  
 

The provisions of this  article  shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to any remedies for spot blight 

abatement that may be authorized by law.  
(Ord. No. 03-21, 9-13-03) 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

29-7 

