  

 

 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

Chapter 39 

 

CIGARETTE TAX 

§ 39-1. Short Title. 
§ 39-2. Definitions. 
§ 39-3. Levy and Rate. 
§ 39-4. Methods of Collection. 
§ 39-5. Registered Agents. 
§ 39-6. Notice of Intention by Retail Dealers. 
§ 39-7. Sale of Cigarettes in Vending Machines; Contraband. 
§ 39-8. Illegal Acts. 
§§ 39-9, 39-10. Reserved. 
§ 39-11. Jeopardy Assessment. 
§ 39-12. Erroneous Assessment; Notices and Hearings in the Event of Sealing of Vending 
Machines or Seizure of Contraband Property. 
§ 39-13. Disposal of Seized Property. 
§ 39-14. Extensions. 
§ 39-15. Penalty for Violations of Chapter. 
§ 39-16. Each Violation a Separate Offense. 
§ 39-17. Severability. 

 
 
§ 39-1. Short Title.  
 

This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Arlington County Cigarette Tax Ordinance.”  

(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85) 
 
§ 39-2. Definitions.  
 

The  following  words  and  terms,  when  used  in  this  chapter,  shall  have  the  following  meanings  unless  the 

“Carton”  means  any  container,  regardless  of  material  used  in  its  construction,  that  contains  packages  of 

context clearly indicates otherwise: 
 
 
cigarettes. 
 
 
“Cigarette” means any roll of any size or shape for smoking, whether filtered or unfiltered, with or without 
a  mouthpiece  made  wholly  or  partly  of  cut,  shredded  or  crimped  tobacco  or  other  plant  or  substitute  for  tobacco, 
whether the same is flavored, adulterated or mixed with another ingredient, if the wrapper or cover is made of any 
material other than leaf tobacco or homogenized leaf tobacco, regardless of whether the  roll is labeled or sold as a 
cigarette or by any other name. 
 
 
and any of the Commissioner's designees. 
 
 
 
 
“Dealer”  means  every  manufacturer,  manufacturer's  representative,  self-wholesaler,  wholesaler,  retailer, 
vending machine operator, public warehouseman or other person who shall sell, receive, store, possess, distribute or 
transport cigarettes within or into the County. 
 

“Commissioner of the  Revenue” means the  Commissioner of the  Revenue of Arlington County, Virginia, 

“County” means Arlington County, Virginia. 

Code Updated 9-2011 

 

39-1 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE       

 

   CIGARETTE TAX                                                                                                                       

“Registered agent” means every dealer and other person who shall be required to report and collect the tax 

“Package”  means  any  container,  regardless  of  the  material  used  in  its  constructions,  in  which  separate 
 
cigarettes are placed without such cigarettes being placed into any container within the package. Packages are those 
containers  of  cigarettes  from  which  individual  cigarettes  are  ordinarily  taken  when  they  are  consumed  by  their 
ultimate user. Ordinarily a package contains twenty (20) cigarettes; however, "package" includes those containers in 
which fewer or more than twenty (20) cigarettes are placed. 
 
 
“Person”  means  any  individual,  firm,  unincorporated  association,  company,  corporation,  joint  stock 
company,  group,  agency,  syndicate,  trust  or  trustee,  receiver,  fiduciary,  partnership  and  conservator.  The  word 
"person"  as  applied  to  a  partnership,  unincorporated  association  or  other  joint  venture  means  the  partners  or 
members thereof, and as applied to a corporation, shall include all the officers and directors thereof. 
 
 
“Place of business” means any place where cigarettes are sold, placed, stored, offered for sale or displayed 
for  sale  or  where  cigarettes  are  brought  or  kept  for  the  purpose  of  sale,  consumption  or  distribution,  including 
vending machines, by a dealer within the County. 
 
 
on cigarettes under the provisions of the chapter. 
 
 
“Retail dealer”  means every  person  who, in the  usual course of business, purchases or receives cigarettes 
from any source whatsoever for the purpose of sale within the County to the ultimate consumer; or any person who, 
in the usual course of business, owns, leases, or otherwise operates within his own place of business, one (1) or more 
cigarette vending machines for the purpose of sale within the County of cigarettes to the ultimate consumer; or any 
person  who,  in  any  manner,  buys,  sells,  stores,  transfers,  or  deals  in  cigarettes  for  the  purpose  of  sale  within  the 
County to the ultimate consumer, who is not licensed as a wholesaler, or vending machine operator. 
 
 
“Sale”  or  “sell”  means  every  act  or  transaction,  regardless  of  the  method  or  means  employed,  including 
barter, exchange, or the use of vending machines or other mechanical devices or a criminal or tortious act whereby 
either  ownership  or  possession,  or  both,  of  any  cigarettes  shall  be  transferred  within  the  County  from  a  dealer  as 
herein defined to any other person for a consideration. 
 
 
“Self-wholesaler”  means  any  person  who  owns  and  operates  one  (1)  or  more  retail  stores  and  purchases 
cigarettes  directly  from  a  dealer,  as  herein  defined,  and  whose  function  it  is  to  store  or  warehouse  cigarettes  for 
distribution to his several retail outlets for sale at retail. 
 
“Stamp”  means  a  small,  gummed  piece  of  paper  or  decalcomania  used  to  evidence  payment  of  the  tax 
 
levied  under  §§ 58.1-1000 et seq. of the Virginia Code as  amended (1950) and officially designated as a Virginia 
revenue stamp. 
 
 
in the regular course of business. 
 
 
 
 
“Use” means the exercise of any right or power over any cigarettes or packages of cigarettes incident to the 
ownership or possession of those cigarettes or packages of cigarettes including any transaction where possession is 
given or received or otherwise transferred, other than a sale. 
 
 
“User”  means  any  person  who  exercises  any  right  or  power  over  any  cigarettes  or  packages  of  cigarettes 
subject to the provisions of this  chapter incident to the ownership or possession of those cigarettes or packages of 
cigarettes or any transaction where possession is given or received or otherwise transferred, other than a sale. 
 
 
only, or who sells at wholesale to institutions, commercial or industrial users.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85) 
 

“Store” or “storage” means the keeping or retention of cigarettes in this County for any purpose except sale 

“Wholesaler” means any person who sells cigarettes to dealers, as herein defined, for the purpose of resale 

“Treasurer” means the Treasurer of Arlington County and any of the Treasurer's designees. 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

39-2 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE       

 

   CIGARETTE TAX                                                                                                                       

§ 39-3. Levy and Rate.  
 

In addition to all other taxes of every kind now or hereinafter imposed by law, there is hereby levied and 
imposed by the County upon every person who sells or uses cigarettes within the County from and after the effective 
date  of  this  chapter  an  excise  tax  equivalent  to  twenty  cents  ($0.20)  for  each  package  containing  twenty  (20) 
cigarettes and ten (10) mills for each cigarette contained in packages of fewer or more than twenty (20) cigarettes 
sold or used within the County effective September 1, 2004; and an excise tax equivalent to thirty cents ($0.30) for 
each  package  containing  twenty  (20)  cigarettes  and  fifteen  (15)  mills  for  each  cigarette  contained  in  packages  of 
fewer  or  more  than  twenty  (20)  cigarettes  sold  or  used  within  the  County  effective  July  1, 2005. The  tax  shall  be 
paid  and  collected  in  the  manner  and  at  the  time  hereinafter  prescribed;  provided,  that  the  tax  payable  for  each 
cigarette or cigarette package sold or used within the County shall be paid but once. The tax hereby levied shall not 
apply to free distribution of sample cigarettes in packages containing five (5) or fewer cigarettes.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85; Ord. No. 04-22, 7-10-04) 
 
§ 39-4. Methods of Collection.  
 

A. The tax imposed by this chapter shall be paid by each dealer or other person liable for the tax under a 
reporting  method  deemed  by  the  Commissioner  to  carry  out  the  provisions  of  this  chapter.  Each  dealer  or  other 
person liable for the tax is hereby required, and it shall be his duty to collect and pay the tax and report separately 
for  packages  of  twenty  (20)  cigarettes  and  packages  of  cigarettes  which  contain  fewer  or  more  than  twenty  (20) 
cigarettes on  forms prescribed for this purpose by the  Board Commissioner (1) the quantity of cigarettes  sold and 
delivered to (a) each registered agent in the County appointed by the Commissioner for which no tax was collected, 
(b) each manufacturer's representative, and (c) each separate person and place of business within the  County during 
the preceding calendar or fiscal month; and, (2) the quantity of cigarettes received during the preceding calendar or 
fiscal month for distribution in the County; and (3) the quantity of cigarettes for distribution in the County on hand; 
and (4) such further information as the Commissioner may require for the proper administration and enforcement of 
this chapter for the determination of the exact number of cigarettes in the possession of each dealer or user.  

 
B. Each dealer or other person liable for the tax shall file such reports with the  Commissioner and pay the 
tax  due  to  the  County  between  the  first  (1st)  and  twentieth  (20th)  day  after  the  close  of  each  calendar  or  fiscal 
month.  

 
C.  When,  upon  examination  and  audit  of  any  invoices,  records,  books,  canceled  checks  or  other 
memoranda  touching  on  the  purchase,  sale,  receipt,  storage,  exchange  or  possession  of  tobacco  products  taxed 
herein, any dealer or other person liable for the tax is unable to furnish evidence to the  Commissioner of sufficient 
tax payments to cover cigarettes which were sold, used, stored, received, purchased or possessed by him, the prima 
facie presumption shall arise that such cigarettes were received, sold, used, stored, purchased or possessed by him 
without  the  proper  tax  having  been  paid.  The  Commissioner  shall,  from  the  result  of  such  examination  and  audit 
based upon the best information available, assess the tax due and unpaid and shall impose a penalty of ten percent 
(10%)  of  the  gross  tax  due  which  shall  be  added  to  the  tax  due.  Interest  shall  accrue  on  taxes  due  and  delinquent 
prior to June 30, 1999, at the rate of three-quarters percent (0.75%) per month of the gross tax and penalty due, up to 
June  30,  1999,  and  as  prescribed  in  §  27-3  thereafter.  Interest  on  taxes  due  and  payable  after  July  1,  1999,  shall 
accrue interest as prescribed in § 27-3.  

 
D. When any dealer or other person liable for the tax files a false or fraudulent report or fails to file a report 
or fails to perform any act or performs any act to evade payment of the tax, the Commissioner shall administratively 
assess the tax due and unpaid and impose a penalty of fifty percent (50%). The dealer or other person liable for the 
tax shall be notified by certified mail of such deficiency and such tax, penalty and interest assessed shall be due and 
payable within ten (10) days after notice of such deficiency has been issued. Every dealer or other person liable for 
the tax shall examine each package of cigarettes to ensure that the Virginia revenue stamp has been affixed thereto 
prior to offering them for sale in Arlington County.  

 
E.  The  dealer  or other  person  liable  for  the  tax  shall  be  notified  by  certified  mail  of  such  deficiency  and 
such tax, penalty and interest assessed shall be due and payable within ten (10) days after notice of such deficiency 
has  been  issued.    No  interest  shall  be  imposed  on  such  unpaid  tax  and  penalty  assessed  on  or  after  July  1,  1999.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

39-3 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE       

 

   CIGARETTE TAX                                                                                                                       

Every dealer or other person liable for the tax shall examine each package of cigarettes to ensure that the Virginia 
revenue stamp has been affixed thereto prior to offering them for sale in Arlington County.  

 
F. Any dealer or other person liable for the tax found to have had untaxed cigarettes which have been lost 

whether by negligence, theft, or any other unaccountable loss, shall be liable for and shall pay the tax due thereon.  

 
G. It shall be duty of each dealer or other person liable for the tax and he is hereby required to maintain and 
keep  for  a  period  of  three  (3)  years,  not  including  the  current  calendar  year,  records  of  cigarettes  received,  sold, 
stored, possessed, transferred or handled by him in any manner whatsoever, to make all such records available for 
audit, inspection and examination and to make available at all reasonable times, the means, facilities and opportunity 
for making such audit, inspection or examination upon demand of the Commissioner.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85; Ord. No. 99-16, 7-10-99; Ord. No. 99-19, 8-14-99) 
 
§ 39-5. Registered Agents.  
 

Any  dealer  or  other  person  liable  for  the  tax  who  shall  sell,  buy,  store,  possess,  distribute  or  transport 
cigarettes  within,  or  into  the  County,  shall  first  make  application  to  the  Commissioner  to  qualify  as  a  registered 
agent.  Such application blank,  which shall be supplied upon request,  shall require such information relative  to the 
nature  of  the  business  engaged  in  by  said  applicant  as  the  Commissioner  deems  necessary.  Such  applicant  shall 
provide a surety bond to the County of one hundred and fifty percent (150%) of his average monthly tax liability or 
fifty  thousand  dollars  ($50,000.00),  whichever  is  less,  with  a  surety  company  authorized  to  do  business  in  the 
Commonwealth of Virginia. Such bond shall be so written that, on timely payment of the premium thereon it shall 
continue in force from year to year. Any applicant whose place of business is outside the County shall automatically, 
by filing his application, submit himself to the County's legal jurisdiction and appoint the Commissioner as his agent 
for any service of lawful process.  

 
Upon  receipt  of  the  properly  completed  application,  and  the  required  surety  bond  executed,  the 
Commissioner shall issue to said applicant a permit to qualify him as a registered agent to purchase, sell, use, store, 
possess, distribute or transport cigarettes within or into the County.  

 
Registered agents shall agree to the reporting and payment requirements placed upon them by this  chapter 
and the rules and regulations as from time to time may be promulgated by the  Commissioner. When any registered 
agent's  monthly report and payment of the tax is not received  within the dates prescribed, the  Commissioner shall 
impose a late reporting penalty of ten percent (10%) of the gross tax due or ten dollars ($10.00) whichever is greater, 
but  in  no  event  more  than  five  hundred  dollars  ($500.00).  The  Commissioner  may  also  require  such  registered 
agents to provide proof that they have complied with all applicable State laws to legally conduct such business and 
to file financial statements showing all assets and liabilities. The Commissioner may revoke any registered agent's 
permit if such bond, as required, is impaired for any reason.  

 
After adoption of this chapter, dealers or other persons liable for that tax who shall sell, use, store, possess, 
distribute  or  transport  tobacco  products  within  or  into  the  County,  shall  be  allowed  thirty  (30)  days  to  become 
qualified as a registered agent.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85) 
 
§ 39-6. Notice of Intention by Retail Dealers.  
 

Retail  dealers  who  shall  sell,  offer  for  sale,  store,  possess,  distribute,  purchase,  receive  or  transport 
cigarettes in or into the County, shall notify the Commissioner, in writing, of the supplier of such cigarettes and the 
name and address and the Virginia Retail Sales and Use Certificate of Registration number for each separate place 
of business.  

 
No  retail  dealer,  as  defined  herein,  who  shall  have  complied  with  the  provisions  of  this  chapter  and  who 
purchases  only  tax  paid  cigarettes  for  each  separate  place  of  business  shall  be  required  to  qualify  as  a  registered 
agent.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85) 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

39-4 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE       

 

   CIGARETTE TAX                                                                                                                       

 
§ 39-7. Sale of Cigarettes in Vending Machines; Contraband.  
 

Any cigarettes placed in any coin-operated vending machine shall be presumed for sale within the County. 
Any vending machine located within the  County containing cigarettes upon which the Virginia  revenue stamp has 
not been affixed or containing cigarettes placed so as to not allow visual inspection of the Virginia  revenue stamp 
through the viewing area as provided for by the vending machine manufacturer shall be in violation of this chapter.  

 
Any cigarettes, coin-operated vending machines, counterfeit stamps, or other property found in violation of 
this chapter shall be declared contraband goods and may be seized by the Commissioner.  In addition to any tax due, 
the dealer or other person liable for the tax possessing such untaxed cigarettes shall be subject to civil and criminal 
penalties herein provided.  

 
In lieu of seizure, the  Commissioner may seal such vending machines to prevent continued illegal sale or 
removal of such cigarettes.  The removal of such seal from a vending machine by an unauthorized person shall be a 
violation of this chapter.  Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the seizure of any vending machine at any time after 
it is sealed.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85) 
 
§ 39-8. Illegal Acts.  
 

It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any dealer or other person liable for the tax: 
 
  
A. To perform any act or fail to perform any act for the purpose of evading the payment of any tax imposed 
by this chapter or of any part thereof, or to fail or refuse to perform any of the duties imposed upon him under the 
provisions of this chapter or to fail or refuse to obey any lawful order which may be issued under this chapter; or 
 
  
B.  To  falsely  or  fraudulently  make,  or  cause  to  be  made,  any  invoices  or  reports,  or  to  falsely  or 
fraudulently forge, alter or counterfeit any stamp, or to procure or cause to be made, forged, altered or counterfeited 
any  such  stamp,  or  knowingly  and  willfully  to  alter,  publish,  pass  or  tender  as  true  any  false,  altered,  forged  or 
counterfeited stamp or stamps; or 
 
  
stamp has not been affixed; or 
 
  
of more than sixty (60) packages upon which the Virginia revenue stamp has not been affixed; or 
 
  
(60) packages into or within the County upon which the Virginia revenue stamp has not been affixed, if they are: 
 
  

E. To transport, authorize or approve the transportation of any cigarettes, in quantities of  more than sixty 

D. To possess, store, use, authorize or approve the possession, storage or use of any cigarettes in quantities 

C. To sell, offer for sale, or authorize or approve the sale of any cigarettes upon which the Virginia revenue 

Not accompanied by a bill of lading or other document indicating the true name and address of the 
consignor  or  seller  and  the  consignee  or  purchaser  and  the  brands  and  quantity  of  cigarettes 
transported; or 

1.  

 
  

 
  
 
  

2.  

Accompanied by a bill of lading or other documents which is false or fraudulent in whole or part; 
or 

3.  

Accompanied by a bill of lading or other document indicating: 

a. 

A  consignee  or  purchaser  in  another  state  or  the  District  of  Columbia  who  is  not 
authorized  by  the  law  of  such  other  jurisdiction  to  receive  or  possess  such  tobacco 
products on which the taxes imposed by such other jurisdiction have not been paid unless 
the tax of the state or district of destination has been paid and said cigarettes bear the tax 
stamps of that state or district; or 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

39-5 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE       

 

   CIGARETTE TAX                                                                                                                       

 
  

b. 

A  consignee  or  purchaser  in  the  Commonwealth  of  Virginia  but  outside  the  taxing 
jurisdiction  who  does  not  possess  a  Virginia  Sales  and  Use  Tax  Certificate,  a  Virginia 
retail tobacco license and, where applicable, both a business license and a retail tobacco 
license issued by the local jurisdiction of destination; or 

F. To reuse or refill with cigarettes any package from which cigarettes have been removed, for which the 

 
  
tax imposed has been theretofore paid; or 
 
G. To remove from any package any stamp with intent to use or cause the same to be used after same have 
  
already been used or to buy, sell, or offer for sale or give away any used, removed, altered or restored stamps to any 
person, or to reuse any stamp which had theretofore been used for evidence of the payment of any tax prescribed by 
this chapter or to sell, or offer to sell, any stamp provided for herein.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85) 
 
§§ 39-9, 39-10. Reserved. 
 
Editors Note:  Ord. No. 85-10, adopted February 23, 1985, repealed § 39-9 and § 39-10 in their entirety. 
Section  39-9  pertained  to  the  establishment  of  the  Northern  Virginia  Cigarette  Tax  Board  and  was  derived  from 
legislation adopted Aug. 3, 1974, as amended by legislation adopted April 29, 1978, effective July 1, 1978, and by 
Ord. No. 82-4, adopted Feb. 16, 1982. Section 39-10 pertained to the powers of the NVCTB and was derived from 
legislation of April 29, 1978 and July 1, 1978. 
 
§ 39-11. Jeopardy Assessment.  
 

If the Commissioner determines that the collection of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected 
and paid under this chapter will be jeopardized by delay, he shall make an assessment of the tax or amount of tax 
required to be collected and shall mail or issue a notice of such assessment to the taxpayer together with a demand 
for immediate payment of the tax or of the deficiency in tax declared to be in jeopardy including any penalties and 
interest  provided  by  law.  In  the  case  of  a  current  period,  for  which  the  tax  is  in  jeopardy,  the  Commissioner  may 
declare  the  taxable  period  of  the  taxpayer  immediately  terminated  and  shall  cause  notice  of  such  finding  and 
declaration to be mailed or issued to the taxpayer together with a demand for immediate payment of the tax based on 
the  period  declared  terminated  and  such  tax  shall  be  immediately  due  and  payable,  whether  or  not  the  terms 
otherwise allowed by the chapter for filing a return and paying the tax have expired.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85; Ord. No. 99-16, 7-10-99; Ord. No. 99-19, 8-14-99) 
 
§ 39-12. Erroneous Assessment; Notices and Hearings in the Event of Sealing of Vending Machines or Seizure 
of Contraband Property.  
 

Any person assessed by the Commissioner with a cigarette tax, penalties and interest or any person whose 
cigarettes, vending machines and other property have been sealed or seized under processes of this chapter who has 
been aggrieved by such assessment, seizure, or sealing may file a request for a hearing before the Commissioner for 
a correction of such assessment and the return of such property seized or sealed.  

 
Where holders of property interest in cigarettes, vending machines or other property are known at time of 
seizure or sealing, notice of seizure or sealing shall be sent to them by certified mail within twenty-four (24) hours. 
Where such  holders of property interests are unknown at time of  seizure or sealing, it  shall be sufficient  notice to 
such unknown interest holders to post such notice to a door or wall of the room or building which contained such 
seized  or  sealed  property.  Any  such  notice  of  seizure  or  scaling  shall  include  procedures  for  an  administrative 
hearing  for  return  of  such  property  seized  or  sealed  as  well  as  affirmative  defenses  set  forth  in  this  section  which 
may be asserted.  

 
Such hearing shall be requested  within ten (10) days of the notice of such assessment, seizure, or sealing 
and shall set forth the reasons why said tax, penalties and interest and cigarettes, vending machines or other property 
should  be  returned  or  released.  Within  five  (5)  days  after  receipt  of  such  hearing  request,  the  Commissioner  shall 
notify the petitioner by certified mail of a date and time for the informal presentation of evidence at a hearing to be 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

39-6 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE       

 

   CIGARETTE TAX                                                                                                                       

held within fifteen (15) days of the date notification is mailed. Any such request for hearing shall be denied if the 
assessed tax, penalties and interest have  not been paid as required or if the request is received  more than ten (10) 
days  from  first  notice  to  the  petitioner  of  such  seizure  or  sealing.  Within  five  (5)  days  after  the  hearing,  the 
Commissioner shall notify the petitioner, by registered mail, whether his request for a correction has been granted or 
refused.  
 
Appropriate  relief  shall  be  given  by  the  Commissioner  if  he  is  convinced  by  the  preponderance  of  the 
evidence  that  the  illegal  sale  or  use  of  such  seized  cigarettes  or  vending  machines  or  other  property  was  not 
intentional on the part of the petitioner, and that said seized cigarettes were in the possession of a person other than 
the petitioner  without the petitioner's consent at the time said cigarettes,  vending  machines or other property  were 
seized or sealed or that petitioner was authorized to possess such untaxed cigarettes. If the Commissioner is satisfied 
that  the  tax  was  erroneously  assessed,  he  shall  correct  the  assessment  and  the  Treasurer  shall  refund  the  amount 
erroneously assessed together  with any interest and penalties paid thereon and shall return any cigarettes,  vending 
machines  or  other  property  seized  or  sealed  to  the  petitioner.  Any  petitioner  who  is  unsatisfied  with  the  written 
decision of the Commissioner may, within thirty (30) days of the date of said decision, appeal such decision to the 
appropriate court in the jurisdiction where the seizure or sealing occurred.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85) 
 
§ 39-13. Disposal of Seized Property.  
 

Any  seized and confiscated cigarettes, vending  machines or other property used in the furtherance of any 
illegal evasion of the tax may be disposed of by sale or other method deemed appropriate by the Commissioner after 
any  petitioner  has  exhausted  all  administrative  appeal  procedures.  No  credit  from  any  sale  of  cigarettes,  vending 
machines, or other property seized shall be allowed toward any tax and penalties assessed.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85) 
 
§ 39-14. Extensions.  
 

The Commissioner, upon a finding of good cause, may grant an extension of time to file a tax report upon 
written application therefor, until the end of the calendar or fiscal month in which any tax report is due hereunder, 
for  a  period  not  exceeding  thirty  (30) days.  In  no  case  shall  a  request  for  extension  of  time  to  file  a  tax  report  be 
granted by the Commissioner when such request is not received within the due date for filing such tax report. Where 
such extension is granted beyond the end of the calendar or fiscal month in which  any tax report is due, hereunder, 
interest on the tax at a rate specified in § 27-3.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85; Ord. No. 99-16, 7-10-99; Ord. No. 99-19, 8-14-99) 
 
§ 39-15. Penalty for Violations of Chapter.  
 

Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Such 
fine and/or imprisonment shall not relieve any such person from the payment of any tax, penalty, or interest imposed 
by this chapter.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85; Ord. No. 91-34, 9-18-91) 
 
§ 39-16. Each Violation a Separate Offense.  
 

The sale of any quantity or the use, possession, storage or transportation of more than sixty (60) packages 
of cigarettes upon which the tax has not been paid shall be and constitute a separate violation. Each continuing day 
of violation shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense.  
(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85) 
 
§ 39-17. Severability.  
 

If any section, phrase, or part of this chapter should for any reason be held invalid by a court of competent 
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the remainder of the chapter; and every remaining section, clause, phrase 
or part thereof shall continue in full force and effect.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

39-7 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE       

 

   CIGARETTE TAX                                                                                                                       

(8-3-74; 7-1-78; Ord. No. 85-10, 2-23-85) 

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

 

39-8 

