ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                   

  TECHNOLOGY ZONES                                                                                 

  
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

 

Chapter 66 

 

TECHNOLOGY ZONES* 

Editor’s  Note:    Ord.  No.  07-11,  adopted  September  8,  2007,  amended  Ch.  66,  in  its  entirety,  to  read  as 

__________  
* 
herein set out. 
__________  
 

Article I. General Provisions 

 

§ 66-1. Purpose. 
§ 66-2. Compliance. 
§ 66-3. Definitions. 
§ 66-4. Business License Tax. 

 

 
§ 66-1. Purpose.  
 

ARTICLE I. 

 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

The Arlington  County Board finds that certain classes of high technology business activities have special 
economic  significance  to  the  County  due  to  the  nature  of  the  technology  developed  or  employed,  their 
interrelationship with other Arlington-based federal and private organizations/businesses, and their potential for high 
growth in employment and capital investment. The Arlington County Board further finds that the most appropriate 
method  of  offering  incentives  to  certain  classes  of  technology  businesses  is  to  create  Technology  Zones  in  the 
Rosslyn-Ballston Corridor, the Jefferson Davis Corridor, the Columbia Pike Special Revitalization District, and the 
Shirlington Area, plus properties located within Commercial/Mixed Use (C) Districts and Industrial (M) Districts as 
authorized  in  the  Code  of  Virginia,  §  58.1-3850,  in  which  zones  inducements  may  be  offered  to  encourage  such 
technology businesses to relocate to or expand in the County. The County has determined that the establishment of 
these  technology  zones  will  improve  economic  conditions,  hasten  redevelopment,  and  benefit  the  welfare  of  its 
citizens.  
(Ord. No. 00-01, § 1, 2-1-00; Ord. No. 03-02, 2-25-03; Ord. No. 07-11, 9-8-07; Ord. No. 14-02, 4-12-14, Ord. No. 
14-09, 12-13-14) 
 
§ 66-2. Compliance.  
 

A business shall  apply  for and  qualify as a qualified  new  or expansion  technology business on an annual 
basis.  If  a  business  ceases  to  be  a  qualified  technology  business  during  a  calendar  tax  year  in  which  the  tax 
reductions  apply,  any  tax  owed  by  the  business  at  the  reduced  rate  for  a  qualified  technology  business  shall  be 
prorated for the months the business was a qualified technology business. If a business applies for and qualifies as a 
technology business during a license year the tax for that year shall be prorated with the appropriate technology rate 
applied to gross receipts derived after qualification. 

 
Failure of the business to fully comply with any tax imposed by the County will result in the revocation of 
its designation as a qualified technology business for the current tax year and any other tax years in which it fails to 
comply. Upon such a determination, the Commissioner of the Revenue shall assess additional business license taxes 
with penalties and interest as authorized in Arlington County Code, Chapter 11.  
(Ord. No. 00-01, § 1, 2-1-00; Ord. No. 07-11, 9-8-07; Ord. No. 14-02, 4-12-14) 
 
§ 66-3. Definitions.  
 

Code Updated 3-2015 

66-1 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                   

  TECHNOLOGY ZONES                                                                                 

 
context clearly indicates otherwise:  

The  following  words  and  terms,  when  used  in  this  chapter,  shall  have  the  following  meanings  unless  the 

 
A.  

 
“Qualified  technology  business”  means  a  business  that  has  a  "definite  place  of  business"  as 
defined in paragraph E, below, within a "qualified technology zone" as defined in  paragraph F of this section, and 
which  has a primary function in  the creation, design, and/or research and development of technology hardware or 
software. The use of computers, telecommunications services, or a  web page or internet site shall not, in itself, be 
sufficient to qualify as a qualified technology business.  
 
 
business in Arlington County which have not been classified as a “qualified technology business”, and can no longer 
be qualified as a new “qualified technology business” pursuant to paragraph D below, but which meet the qualified 
technology business activity definition and which have expanded employment significantly based by one of the 
following criteria:  
 

“Qualified expansion technology business” means existing businesses with a definite place of 

B.  

Increased full time employment by at least 25% or more full-time employees within the twelve (12) months 
prior to application as an expansion technology business. For purposes of this subsection this means an 
increase in the number of full-time employees at or greater than 25% of the number of full-time employees 
shown on a report to the Virginia Employment Commission (VEC) within the twelve (12) months prior to 
qualification as an expansion technology business.  

 

Once certified as a qualified expansion technology business gross receipts from the time of the expansion 
are eligible for the incentive. The applicable tax rate will be as indicated in Section 11-86 of the Arlington County 
Code.   

 
C.  

 
Any  business  already  qualified  as  a  “qualified  technology  business”  on  April  12,  2014,  which 
expands as outlined in paragraph B above may be newly qualified as a “qualified expansion technology business” if 
the  expansion  criteria  are  met.  In  that  case  the  incentive  period  allowed  by  law  and  Chapter  11  of  the  Arlington 
County Code shall begin on the date of the qualification as a “qualified expansion technology business”   
 
 
No  business  shall  qualify  as  a  new  “qualified  technology  business”  unless  (1)  that  business  has 
first established a definite place of business in Arlington County after February 1, 2000, and (2) within eighteen (18) 
months  after  establishing  a  definite  place  of  business  in  the  county  that  business  has  met  the  requirements  of  this 
ordinance  and  applied  for  such  status.  A  business  may  qualify  as  a  “qualified  expansion  technology  business” 
whenever the expansion criteria outlined for “qualified expansion technology business” are met. 
 

D.  

E. 

"Definite  place  of  business"  means  an  office  or  a  location  at  which  occurs  a  regular  and 
continuous course of dealing over a period of thirty (30) consecutive days or more. A definite place of business for a 
person engaged in business may include a location leased or otherwise obtained from another person.  
 
 
 

"Qualified technology zone" means one (1) of the following:  

F.  

1.  

 
2.  

3.  

 
4. 
 

 

Downtown Technology Zones. Those areas zoned for commercial or industrial use in the Rosslyn-
Ballston  or  Jefferson  Davis  Corridors,  as  designated  on  the  General  Land  Use  Plan  in  effect  on 
December  11,  1999,  and  which  is  a  part  of  the  Comprehensive  Plan  for  Arlington  County, 
Virginia.  The  precise  boundaries  of  the  Rosslyn-Ballston  Corridor  and  Pentagon  City  -  Crystal 
City Technology Zones are set forth in Appendix A, which is attached to this chapter.  

Shirlington  Technology  Zone.  Those  areas  zoned  for  commercial  or  industrial  use  in  the 
Shirlington area as set forth in Appendix A.  

Columbia  Pike  Corridor  Technology  Zone.  Those  specific  parcels  within  the  "Columbia  Pike 
Special Revitalization District" as set forth in Appendix A.  

Properties located within Commercial/Mixed Use (C) Districts and Industrial (M) Districts. 

Code Updated 3-2015 

66-2 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                   

  TECHNOLOGY ZONES                                                                                 

G.  

“Employee”  means  a  person  who  is  on  the  qualified  technology  business'  payroll  within  the 

 
technology zone and is required to report to work in the technology zone.  
(Ord. No. 00-01, 2-1-00; Ord. No. 03-02, 2-25-03; Ord. No. 06-01, 1-21-06; Ord. No. 07-11, 9-8-07; Ord. No. 14-
02, 4-12-14, Ord. No. 14-09, 12-13-14) 
 
§ 66-4.  Business License Tax. 
 
 
license tax provided in Arlington County Code § 11-86. 
(Ord. No. 00-01, 2-1-00; Ord. No. 07-11, 9-8-07; Ord. No. 14-02, 4-12-14) 
 

A qualified new or expansion technology business as defined by this chapter shall be subject to the business 

Code Updated 3-2015 

66-3 

APPENDIX A 

DEFINITION OF TECHNOLOGY ZONES 

DOWNTOWN TECHNOLOGY ZONES: 

ROSSLYN-BALLSTON CORRIDOR TECHNOLOGY ZONE -- The geographic area as delineated by the 
following:  

Beginning at Route 50 and Arlington Ridge Road, west on Route 50 to North Mead Street, south 
along  North  Mead  Street  to  12th  Street  North,  west  on  12th  Street  North  to  Route  50,  west  on 
Route  50  to  10th  Street,  west  on  10th  Street  to  Washington  Boulevard,  south  on  Washington 
Boulevard to 7th Street North,  west on 7th Street North  to North Hudson Street, south on North 
Hudson Street to 6th Street North, west on 6th Street North to North Ivy Street, south on North Ivy 
Street to 5th  Street North,  west on 5th Street  North, to Glebe Road, southeast on Glebe  Road to 
4th  Street  North,  southwest  on  4th  Street  North  to  George  Mason  Drive,  northwest  on  George 
Mason Drive to I-66, northeast on I-66 to Washington Boulevard, east on Washington Boulevard 
to  Kirkwood  Road,  north  on  Kirkwood  Road  to  13th  Street  North,  east  on  13th  Street  North  to 
North Jackson Street, north on North Jackson Street to Key Boulevard, east on Key Boulevard to 
Custis Road, southeast on Custis Road to Barton Street, north on Barton Street to Key Boulevard, 
east on Key Boulevard to North Adams Street, north on North Adams Street to 18th Street North, 
east  on  18th  Street  North  to  North  Veitch  Street,  north  on  North  Veitch  Street  to  
Lee  Highway,  east  on  Lee  Highway  to  North  Oak  Street,  north  along  North  Oak  Street,  and 
continuing  in  that  line  to  the  George  Washington  Memorial  Parkway,  west  on  the  George 
Washington Memorial Parkway to Arlington Ridge Road, then south along Arlington Ridge Road 
to Route 50.  

JEFFERSON DAVIS CORRIDOR -- The geographic area delineated by the following:  

Beginning at South Joyce Street and Shirley Highway, east on Shirley Highway then northward to 
its intersection  with the George Washington Memorial Parkway, east on the George Washington 
Memorial  Parkway  to  the  R  F&P  railroad  track  right-of-way,  south  along  the  R  F&P  railroad 
right-of-way  to  the  Four  Mile  Run  waterway,  west  along  Four  Mile  Run  to  South  Eads  Street, 
north on South Eads Street to 23rd Street South, west on 23rd Street South to South Fern Street, 
north  on  South  Fern  Street  to  18th  Street  South  at  its  intersection  with  South  Hayes  Street, 
northwest  on  South  Hayes  Street  to  its  intersection  with  15th  Street  South,  west  on  15th  Street 
South to South Joyce Street, north on South Joyce Street to Shirley Highway.  

OTHER TECHNOLOGY ZONES 

 

SHIRLINGTON TECHNOLOGY ZONE:  

The geographic area delineated by the following:  

Beginning at Walter Reed Drive at Four Mile Run Drive, east on Four Mile Run Drive to South 
Shirlington Road, north on South Shirlington Road to 24th Street South, east on 24th Street South 
to  South  Glebe  Road,  southeast  on  South  Glebe  Road  to  I-395,  south  on  I-395  to  the  Arlington 
County  boundary  with  the  City  of  Alexandria,  thence  west  along  said  boundary  to  South 
Shirlington Road, south on Shirlington Road to Shirlington Circle, south on Shirlington Circle to 
the  edge  of  the  C-O-1.5  zoning,  thence  west  along  said  zoning  line  to  the  southern  edge  of  the 
Arlington  County  Trades  Center  property,  north  along  said  property  line  to  29th  Street  South, 
north on 29th Street South to Arlington Mill Drive, west on Arlington Mill Drive to South Walter 
Reed Drive, and thence north on Walter Reed Drive to Four Mile Run Drive.  

 

COLUMBIA PIKE CORRIDOR TECHNOLOGY ZONE:  

Code Updated 5-2014 

66-4 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE                                   

  TECHNOLOGY ZONES                                                                                 

Being  all  parcels  with  commercial,  mixed  use  or  public  use  zoning  within  the  boundaries  of  the  
"Columbia  Pike  Special  Revitalization  District";  as  such  district  is  more  specifically  defined  on 
the County's General Land Use Plan, and said Plan's Note #8, as such may be amended; and as the 
sub-components of such District are further more precisely defined in the Regulating Plans of the 
Form-Based  Code  for  Columbia  Pike,  for  each  of  "Town  Center",  "Village  Center", 
"Neighborhood Center" and "Western Gateway" areas.  
 

PROPERTIES  LOCATED  WITHIN  COMMERCIAL/MIXED  USE 
(C)  DISTRICTS  AND 
INDUSTRIAL  (M)  DISTRICTS  AS  CLASSIFIED  IN  THE  ARLINGTON  COUNTY  ZONING 
ORDINANCE. 
 

 (Ord. No. 03-02, 2-25-03; Ord. No. 06-01, 1-21-06; Ord. No. 07-11, 9-8-07; Ord. No. 14-09, 12-13-14) 

Code Updated 3-2015 

66-5 

