 

 
 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE 

Chapter 1 

 

 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

§ 1-1. How Code Designated and Cited. 
§ 1-2. Rules of Construction. 
§ 1-3. Catchlines of Sections. 
§ 1-4. Provisions Considered as Continuations of Existing Ordinances. 
§ 1-5. Severability of Parts of Code. 
§ 1-6. General Penalty; Continuing Violation; Applicable Penalty if the Local Penalty is in Excess of 
That Permissible. 
§ 1-7. Fines and Costs. 
§ 1-7.1. Late Payment Penalty; Collection of Delinquent Local Accounts by Treasurer. 
§ 1-8. Correction of Errors or Omissions. 
§ 1-9. Classification of Penalties for Misdemeanors. 

 
§ 1-1. How Code Designated and Cited.  
 

 

§ 1-2. Rules of Construction.  
 

The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated 

"The Code of the County of Arlington, Virginia, 1957," and may be so cited. 

In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such 
construction  would  be  inconsistent  with  the  manifest  intent  of  the  County  Board  or  the  context  clearly  requires 
otherwise:  

 
Computation of time: Whenever a notice is required to be given, or an act to be done, a certain length of 
time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which such notice is given, or such act is done, shall be counted 
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.  

 
County: The word "County" shall be construed as if the words "of Arlington" followed it.  
 
County  Manager:    Unless  otherwise  prohibited  by  the  Code  of  Virginia  or  where  the  context  clearly 
indicates otherwise, County Manager shall mean County Manager of Arlington County or his designee or authorized 
agent or representative. 

 
Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, 

partnerships and corporations as well as to males.  

 
Highway: The word "highway" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, 

walkways, lanes, viaducts and all other public ways in the County.  

 
Number:  A  word  importing  the  singular  number  only  may  extend  and  be  applied  to  several  persons  or 
things as well as to one person or thing; a word importing the plural number only may extend and be applied to one 
person or thing, as well as to several persons or things.  

 
Person:  The  word  "person"  may  extend  and  be  applied  to  associations,  firms,  partnerships  and  bodies 

politic and corporate as well as to individuals.  

 
Preceding, following: The "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.  
 

Code Updated 9-2011 

1-1 

 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

   GENERAL PROVISIONS                                                                                                         

 

 

 

State: The word "state" shall be construed as if the words "of Virginia" followed it. 
 

§ 1-3. Catchlines of Sections.  
 

The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords 
to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part 
of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the 
catchlines, are amended or re-enacted. 

§ 1-4. Provisions Considered as Continuations of Existing Ordinances.  
 

The  provisions  appearing  in  this  Code,  so  far  as  they  are  the  same  as  those  of  all  ordinances  included 

herein, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments. 

§ 1-5. Severability of Parts of Code.  
 

It  is  hereby  declared  to  be  the  intention  of  the  County  Board  that  the  sections,  paragraphs,  sentences, 
clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code 
shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, 
such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs 
and sections of this Code. 

B.  

A.  

§ 1-6. General Penalty; Continuing  Violation; Applicable Penalty if the Local Penalty is in  Excess of That 
Permissible. 
 
 
Whenever  in  this  Code  or  in  any  ordinance  of  the  County,  or  rule  or  regulation  or  order 
promulgated by any officer or agency of the County under authority duly vested in him or it, any act is prohibited or 
is declared to be  unlawful or an offense or a  misdemeanor, and  no specific penalty is  provided for the violation 
thereof, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance, rule, regulation, or order shall be 
punished by a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), or by imprisonment in the County 
Jail not exceeding thirty (30) days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day any violation of this Code or any 
such ordinance, rule, regulation, or order shall continue shall constitute, except where otherwise provided, a separate 
offense. 
 
 
If the penalty provided for the violation of any Code provision, ordinance of the County, or rule or 
regulation or order promulgated by any officer or agency of the County, is in excess of the penalty permissible under 
State law, the maximum penalty for any such violations shall be the maximum penalty permissible under State law.  
(8-3-74; 11-18-78; Ord. No. 91-34, 9-18-91) 
 
§ 1-7. Fines and Costs. 
 
 
County and credited by him to the General County Fund. 
 
 
as prescribed by law in misdemeanor cases under State statutes. 
 
§ 1-7.1. Late Payment Penalty; Collection of Delinquent Local Accounts by Treasurer. 
 
 
Any County department or agency may impose a late payment penalty in the amount of ten dollars 
($10.00) or ten percent (10%) of the amount due, whichever is greater, upon all local accounts that are not paid by 
the due date. Such penalty shall be added to the amount of the account due from such person. No penalty shall be 
imposed for the failure to pay any account if such failure was not in any way the fault of the debtor. Interest at the 
rate of ten percent (10%) annually shall be collected on the principal and penalty of all such accounts, from the first 
day following the day such penalty is imposed. 
 

All fines and costs collected under the terms of this Code shall be paid over to the Treasurer of the 

Costs shall be taxed in prosecutions under this Code in the same amounts and in the same manner 

A.  

A.  

B.  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

1-2 

ARLINGTON COUNTY CODE        

 

   GENERAL PROVISIONS                                                                                                         

Any County department or agency having delinquent accounts may transfer those accounts to the 

B.  

 
County Treasurer for collection.  
(Ord. No. 99-14, 6-12-99) 
 
§ 1-8. Correction of Errors or Omissions.  
 

The County Manager shall order the reprinting of any page of this Code to correct any typographical or 
grammatical  errors  or  omissions  existing  herein  when,  in  the  opinion  of  the  County  Manager,  the  County  Board 
Clerk and the County Attorney, such errors or omissions are of a minor, nonsubstantive nature and the correction 
thereof will have no material effect thereon. The County Manager shall maintain a record of all such changes.  
(9-29-79) 
 
§ 1-9. Classification of Penalties for Misdemeanors.  
 

Whenever in this Code an act is made unlawful or a misdemeanor, where a penalty is prescribed using the 

following terms, they should have the following meanings: 

  

 
  

 
  

 
  

 
A. 

B. 

C. 

D. 

Class 1 misdemeanors: An offense for which the authorized punishment is confinement in jail for 
not more than twelve (12) months and a fine of not more than two thousand five hundred dollars 
($2,500.00), either or both. 

Class 2 misdemeanors: An offense for which the authorized punishment is confinement in jail for 
not more than six (6) months and a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), either 
or both. 

Class 3 misdemeanors: An offense for which the authorized punishment is a fine of not more than 
five hundred dollars ($500.00). 

Class 4 misdemeanors: An offense for which the authorized punishment is a fine of not more than 
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).  

(Ord. No. 91-31, 8-10-91)  

Code Updated 9-2011 
 

1-3 

